424 hundredths, as against 60 hundredths
imposed by the act of 1890.
This was the authoritative and final
deliverance on the Republican side. We
can guarantee that it did not favor the
Senate bill. Yet it acknowledges that
the duty in the Senate schedule is but a
little more than two- thirds of the
Trust's protective duty in the present
McKinley tariff, or 42%, as against 60.
Those Republican organs who like the
Tribune have been making the false
statement that the protection of the
Sugar Trust is as great under the new
bill as under the McKinley law, or
greater, and that the Senate schedule
was framed in the Trust's interest,
should read the careful and elaborate
speech of their own party leader in the
Senate sugar debate, and then make an
effort to tell the truth.
ENGLISH IGNORANCE OF THE SOUTH,
The London Daily News has a lengthy
article headed" American Horrors,"
telling of protests of various societies
and religious bodies in London against
the lynching of negroes in the Southern
States of the Union, and telling
most horrible tales of the aforesaid
lynchings. The article concludes:
The States are for both
labor and capital to develop their magnif-
cent resources, and they will get neither
till order reigns in their cities. Capital
asks, first of all, for the supremacy of
law, and labor will keep away from districts
waere no sympathizer with a negro
can feel entirely safe. The Southern
States will thus be made to feel that they
cannot outrage with impunity the sense of
justice and of humanity of the whole clv-
ilized world.
This and the News' whole article and
indeed the whole matter, as treated in
London, is the veriest nonsense. It is
most surprising that so prominent and
presumably well informed a journal as
the Daily News should make so bald a
mis- statement.
There is not a spot on the face of the
earth where the lay- abiding negro is
safer or better off an in the South.
is but one crime for which the
There negro is lynched here and for that
crime he is lynched everywhere. The
fact of the vast number of negroes in the
South and the consequent greater num
ber of negro lynchings together with
exaggerated reports of them are well
calculated to mislead those who are so
totally ignorant of the South and its
conditions as our English cousins evidently
are. Meanwhile we wish to inform
our well- meaning but grossly mis
taken friends over the water that the
South is perfectly capable of taking
care of its own affairs and that if they
have any capital they want to invest in
one of the richest garden spots of the
earth it will be as safe in the South as
it would be in the Bank of England so
far its safety depended upon the preservation
as of law and order."
