The former retreated from the room, after having
been cut across the face, but the woman was
not so fortunate. Webber, it is alleged, caught her
by the hair and stabbed her in various places
about the head and neck, until the blood flowed in
torrents. The poor woman succeeded in making
her way to the street, when an alarm was raised,
and chase was given Webber. Officer Prender
ghast, of the Fourth ward police, hearing of the
occurrence, hastened to the scene, when he met
Webber and took him into custody.' Dr. James R.
Wood, who was attending a patient in the neigh-
borhood, was notified of the occurrence, and pro-
new.ceeding to the spot, did all in his power to alleviate
the sufferings of the wounded woman. Upon an
examination it was found that the jugular vein and
arteries had been cut, and that the
the unfortunate creature was in imminent danger.
Accordingly Coroner Gamble was notified of the
perilous condition of the woman, and preparations
by this an ante- morten
examination taken. The dying woman being in
formed that her case was hopeless, was requested
to make a dying declaration in regard to the facts
of the case. The usual form having been gone
through with, the woman's affidavit was taken.
She said" she lived with Frederick Webber for
twenty months, and I supported him all that time;
I live now with Mr. Charles Beekman; this day,
about noon, Webber came into my room, on the
third story, rear 27 Monroe street, and asked me
to give him thirty dollars; I told him I did not have
any money; he then grabbed hold of me, and said
he should have the money; he had an open knife
in his hand; it was a pocket knife; he cut me on
the neck with the knife; he ran down stairs and I
ran after him into the grocery store; he also at
tacked Mr. Beekman: I returned from the grocery
Istore to the house and sat down on the hall door
steps; the reason he cut me was that I would not
support him any longer; he wanted me to go out
dance I
Webber now present as the one to whom I allude."
On the prisoner's being brought before the dying
woman, he seemed particularly gratified at her condition
; and pointing his finger at her as she lay prostrate
on the floor, exclaimed," Damn you. see how you
are fixed." The police officer who had him in charge
checked any further exclamations on the part of the
accused, but he continued to mutter curses upon the
head of the poor woman he had so horribly mangled,
until he was conducted away. Upon the foregoing
affidavit, Coroner Gamble committed Webber to the
Tombs, to await the result of the wounded woman's
injuries while Beekman was also detained as a wit-
,
ness in the case. It is the opinion of the medical
men in attendance that the injured woman cannot
survive her wounds twenty- four hours.
During the progress of the Coroner's investigation
the entire neighborhood, for many squares around,
was the scene of continual turmoil. Thousands of
men, women and children sought to gain admittance
to the room wherein the tragedy was enacted, and
seemed much disappointed on being informed that it
was impossible for them to have their wishes gratified
. The feeling against Webber was intense, and
not few suggested the idea of Lynch law being
promptly a administered.
