A. F. Monroe, in Coles County, Ill., Hung by a Mob.
We regret to learn that Monroe, who murdered
his father- in- law, Ellington, in Coles county,
Ill., who was to have been executed according
to law last Friday, but who had been respited
by the Governor till the 15th of May, was hung
by a mob on the day first above mentioned.
We find the following particulars of the last
tragedy in the Missouri Republican of the 18th:
" A large crowd, as is usual on such occasions,
had assembled to witness the execution, and
when it was known that a respite had been
received, a portion determined to hang him anyhow
. They broke into the jail where the pris-
oner was, by means of picks and other tools,
dragged him out, and hung him to a tree.
" The murder for which Monroe was convicted
was of a most aggravated kind, having brutally
murdered his father- in- law, whose name was
Ellington.
" This murder has been the cause of much
excitement in Coles
county ever since it
, was
committed. At the trial, there was some rea
son to apprehend that the accused might escape
a conviction, and hundreds of citizens assembled
around the Court House, and gave unmistakeable
signs of their intention to hang the murderer, if
the jury should not do their duty. They were
saved from this act of violence by his conviction
and the sentence of death being passed upon
him. An appeal was
taken to the preme
Court, lately in session at Springfield, but there
the motion for arrest of execution was denied,
and the sentence permitted to take its course.
What followed, is briefly stated above The
.
man, on hearing what was going on outside of
the jail, attempted to destroy himself by beat
his brains out
willing
against the wall of the prison
,
and when taken out he was in an insensible
condition his
Upon restoration the mob hanged
.
,
him. It is said that six or eight of the leaders
in the affair have been arrested and are new
confined in jail to await an examination.
" One of the papers from Coles county, printed
last weck, contained a long speech which the
murderer intended to deliver at his trial, but from
which he dissuaded by his counsel and
friends." was
