the 5th of June, 1876, he rose to a personal
explanation, and after denying the power
of the House to compel the production
of his private papers, and his willingness to
go to any extremity in defense of his rights,
he declared that he propose 1 to reserve nothing
. Holding up the letters be exclaimed:
" Thank God, I am not ashamed to show
them. There is the very orignal package.
And with some sense of humiliation, with a
mortification I do not attempt to conceal,
with a sense of outrage which I think any
man in my position would fee', I invite the
confidence of 40,000,000 of my countrymen
while I read these letters from my desk."
The demonstration closed with a dramatic
one of the
tors of the Little Rock and Fort Smith Rail
road, who had full knowledge of the whole
transaction, was traveling in Europe and
both sides were seeking to communicate
with him. After finishing the reading of
the letters Mr. Elaine turned to the Chair
man of the Committee and demanded to
know whether he had received any dispatch
from Mr. Caldwell. Receiving an evasive
answer Mr. Blaine asserted, as within his
own knowledge, that the Chairman had received
such a dispatch completely and absolutely
exonerating me from this charge
and you have suppressed it."
In 1875 Mr. Blaine was appointed to the
Senate to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation
of Senator Morrill, and the next
winter was elected by the Legislature to the
succee ling term. His career in the Senate
was both brilliant and distinguished, as it
had been in the House. He was called from
the Senate to enter President Garfield's
It was while
Cabinet as Secretary of State.
passing through the railroad depot leaning
on Mr. Blaine's arm and pleasantly chatting
with him about his co.ning holiday that
Garfield received the assassin's fatal bullet.
The death of Mr. Garfield led to Mr. Blaine's
retirement from the Cabinet, in December,
1882. From that date until he entered Mr.
Harrison's Cabinet as Secretary of State,
he was in private life except during his
campaign for the Presidency in 1884.
During his retirement Mr. Blaine wrote
his" Twenty Years in Congress," a work of
great historical value. It was in accordance
with his original suggestion and due to his
earnest efforts that provision was made in
the McKinley bill for the reciprocity treaties
which formed such prominent features
of National policy. The Samoan difficulties
, the complications arising out of the
lynching of Italians at New Orleans, and the
killing of American seamen at Valparaiso
were also disposed of while Mr. Blaine was
The
at the head of the State Department.
events preceding and atten ting the recent
Minneapolis Convention are too recent al
most to need recounting. Mr. Blaine was
induced to permit his name to be used as a
candidate, and resigned his place in the
Cabinet. Whether in public position cr in
private life, he always remained a central
figure in National affairs.
BLAINE'S LIFE IN WASHINGTON.
For nearly thirty years Mr. Blaine has
been a resident of Washington. While he
never gave up his home an 1 home life in
Maine, where he had a town residence
Augusta and a summer residence at Bar in
