The Wells Woman,
The following letter has been received
here by a member of the Richmond
Press, which gives the history of the
negro woman Wells, who is lecturing in
Europe, and to which reference was made
in this paper yesterday:
Memphis, Tenn., May 23, 1891.
The negro woman, Ida B. Wells, who is
attracting so much attention in Europe,
was formerly the editor of the negro
weekly newspaper in Memphis, called
" Free Speech." About two years ago
she published an article in the paper
assailing the purity of the white women
of Memphis. The article also defended
the negro brutes who were lynched in
this county for criminally assaulting a
white woman. The publication of this
attack on the white women of Memphis
créated considerable excitement, and at
a meeting of citizens a committee of
well- known business men was appointed
to notify her to leave town, as such
violent attacks on the white race had a
tendency to provoke a race conflict.
It seems that the Wells woman had left
town after she had written the article
and before it appeared in print. She
knew it would raise a storm of indignation
, and decided to get at a safe distance
before the paper was printed. The
committee could not find her, but it did
find her paramour, a negro school teacher,
and ordered him to move to a more congenial
climate, which order he obeyed.
Since then the Wells woman has been
traveling over the eastern States and
Europe, slandering the people of this city
in her lectures. She has been making a
large amount of money out of these
" lectures" and aroused a certain mea
sure of sympathy in New England.
She is a notorious woman of ill- repute.
The Commercial has repeatedly denounced
her, and invited her to sue for
libel in the United States courts in any
State she sees fit, but she has never dared
to bring the suit.
The people of Memphis are law- abiding
and law- loving, and the charges that Ida
B. Wells makes against them are lies
of the whole cloth.
Yours truly,
The Commercial Publishing Co.,
per W. D. ROBINSON
Managing Editor,.
