advertising stand for right. As a bunco boy Billy the active and sympathetic co- opera- will be on the so may the in public places; it is an excuse for
same
, one
who has voted more basis
cans the as given black soldiers from Senegambia
ballot and
is but a supreme tion disfranchising
than once in ef is a bouncer of the National and State gov- railroad employes and will be him; and it is an ex
past.
the twenty years, fort to reenslave us and to force our ernments. German propaganda dated other African French colonies. Un- cuse for lynching him
. Only one
and each time voted the from January 1 last fortunately
Republican. the incorporation
assent thereto. To this policy the amoung us is powerless, but the ap of most tenth of one per cent of the colored
ticket. colored man does not, can not and IS IT FAIR? parent indifference of our own Gov of these elements into the future people in America can trace their
ernment may be dangerous.* French population would represent descent to Africa, and there
**
We are sending millions of our is no
will not agree our AMERICANS-
Of it intolerance THAT'S degeneration
. ALL mongrelization and
is cumulative young men, the hope of our nation, Discreditable utterance- Seek to Put. France would do better, in the long. more right to call all colored people
. Negroes
Against it, we shall For than to call
THE LADY Race Loyal on Defensive many years all white people
AND THE, to Ex it
TIGER. has
The first enrollment of New exert our righteous efforts until not abroad while to fight for democracy. Mean aggerate Difficulty of Redress and custom to treat colored people been the as run mediate, to send economic them home, for the im- Turks or Armenians."- Ex- Assistant
City's women voters has just taken York only every eligible colored man, but transmutation evidences of our are government plentiful, of with a nite Then. Cringe and Leave all Indefi- allens, although they are more than vantage of their immigration or industrial would ad- H. United Lewis States, Boston Attorney, Mass. General Wm.
every eligible colored woman shall be ninety- nine cent be more than counterbalanced by the
The
of American
American
per
place and 279,566 of them have a decided
trend toward socialism Negro
. Is does
not ex- birth; disadvantage of
and the mixture. France
formally taken on party affiliation. wielding the ballot proudly in defense it fair to these youong men who are pect to have the whole Negro prob there is a growing ten amalgamates all racial elements that SHOULD BE NO COLOR CASTE.
of our homes. lem settled immediately; he is not dency among
Naturally, the Democratic the colored people to enter her gates. The
about Her
party to shed best New
, their blood hope York
that democ for World
- seeking, one
to hold up of
a striving the
which We are appealing to you neither as racy coun- regard themselves as allens. This is her demographic future rests on such
is in may greatest daily
the ascendancy live newspapers
, that we repudiate
gaining 164,722 takes to vassals or inferiors. Bull that try and a distracted world by push- being encouraged by a class of lead- a strengthening of her economic, so- try, says in a recent issue in: the coun
the larger share, Run and democracy in their absence? Are they ing irrelevant personal grievances as ers who cial and moral bases as would result" If there is any ground
Appomattox fixed call themselves for the com
status this disposed" Negroes
the Republicans 96,749 in
"
' our
. Whether to return to form of a price of loyalty he is not
a government for; in normal increase
of the native plaint of Colored
a trained
