OUTLAW BREWER SHOT.
Fell Before a Posse After Forty- One
Bullets Hit Him.
Brunswick, Ga., Dec. 18.- Bob Brewer,
the notorious South Georgia half- breed
Indian outlaw, fell before a hail of bul
lets to- day, and is now at death's door
with 41 wounds in his body. It is
not thought he will live until morning.
If carried back to Jesup, the scene of
his former crimes, he will be lynched.
Brewer 10 years ago assassinated Cap-
tain Forsyth, manager of the Hilton&
Dodge Lumber company interests in
Dodge county, and who was a participant
in the great land conspiracy that
sent Hall, the well known Georgia attorney
, to the Ohio penitentiary, and
brought down the power of the United
States court into the squatter land
grabbing game. After this event, for
which Brewer escaped punishment for
lack of evidence, he lead the Jesup riot
ers, and during Christmas, 1889, headed
a band of armed murderers, killing
alone four white citizens of Wayne
county, and precipitating a riot that
resulted in the whites of the surround-
ing country banding together and
breaking open the Jesup jail, taking
therefrom all the negro inmates to deal
them terrible deaths at the hand of
lynch law justice.
In all 12 negroes paid the penalty of
Brewer's riotous conduct that Christ
day despite the efforts of
mas,
Georgia's governor in calling out the
hussars of Savannah and the riflemen
of Brunswick to protect their lives and
property. Every negro around Jesup
was run to the woods. Brewer escaped
the mob's fury and was only found to
day at Johnston station and forced to
battle for his life. He stood against
the posse until, weighted with bullets
and weak from loss of blood, he fell in
his tracks cursing the men that brought
him to his doom.
Solicitor General Bennett says that
Brewer was an Indian half- breed, with
all the cunning and revengefulness of
an Indian. He terrorized Wayne county
for years and on the fateful Christ
mas of 1889 shot the town marshal of
Jesup to death. Three brave men of a
posse that sought to capture him met
with a like fate, and waving a smoking
rifle at his pursuers Brewer escaped to
the woods. Crime after crime was af
terward announced in that region, and
each time the half- breed was reported
to have been seen in the neighborhood
where they had been committed.
When the Cuban war came Brewer
was said to have joined the insurgents,
and not until his discovery at Johnston
station yesterday was he known to
have returned to his old haunts. The
organization of a posse was made
quickly and the blood which had cooled
since that day 10 years ago boiled
again for vengeance. It was a battle
to the death and not a man flinched.
Brewer wounded several men before he
fell, and as they were carrying him to
the jail his savage nature vented
in kicks at the men who bore him. itself
