***
" Hong Di was only seventeen years
old. He might have languished for fifty
years in a dungeon.
" To spend half a century in solitary
confinement, at hard labor, on coarse
food, without any opium or whisky, any
diversion or vacation- I can hardly imagine
a drearier prospect. He could have
no hope of executive clemency, for what
California governer would ever think of
pardoning a Chinaman? That crowd of
lynchers must have believed that if they
hung Hong Di, he would have to spend
those fifty years in a worse place than the
penitentiary. Hence they must have believed
in hell!"
This is the conclusion" Obadiah Old
school" reaches by his" Logic."
A word in passing as to the" California
governor," who would not be likely
to" ever think of pardoning a Chinaman
." The God that" Obadiah Old-
school" worships, will never think, in
all the ceaseless ages of his existence,
of pardoning one of the many billions
of heathen who have sunk into a hope
less hell, largely because they have not
believed in a Saviour of whom they
have never heard, or had an opportunity
to hear, for what says" Oldschool's"
creed:" They who having never heard
the gospel, know not Jesus Christ, and
believe not in him, cannot be saved, be
they never so diligent to frame their
lives according to the light of nature,
or the laws of that religion which they
profess." Now let us look a little while
into the case of this poor heathen
Chinee" who was lynched..
" THE LOGIC OF LYNCHING."
An article with the above title, and
over the nom- de- plume," Obadiah Old
school," appears in the Interior, of July
28. We think we know who" Obadiah
Oldschool" is, -a Presbyterian clergy
man of considerable prominence, and
the author of a number of articles in
the Herald and Presbyter, which have appeared
from time to time with his real
name. He is a very sprightly and
cheerful writer, though how he reconciles
his cheerfulness with his" Old
school" Presbyterian ideas, has long
been a puzzle. The occasion of this
article," The Logic of Lynching," will
be best explained by extracting a few
of the opening sentences:
" The account of the lynching of Hong
Di, at Coluss, Cal., has been telegraphed
around the world. The verdict of the
jury, that he should be imprisoned for
life did not satisfy the people. They believed
that the murder was deliberate,
premeditated and should have been
, punished
by death. Hence they went en
masse, and took him from the jail and
him.
hung*
