deserves much praise and credit on La Salle street, and is also the owner April, 1892, at 10:30 A. M. his spirit passed the humorist
Harper, Miss Dora
nuated The circuit court
of property. The Dumont family of Jefferson
on Mr have data county
Grand Philip Pendle
Boulevard Stark, the" little
worth
,
as he seems jem of elocution
away.
fully" and
He
for giving Sioux City such a rich treat.
is dead. With us no showing
more equipped
he is aged 96. He was
to married
not carry Arkansas convened
less on the Pine
than ten thousand business we in Bluff last other talented
dollars thirty local artists
. Mr.- four will appear
in person times, and
but his vission shall is the father
always be feel of at week
confident of his success., and. in instructing the
Moore is probably worth 25,000, grand jury, in the grand polka- dot Reception
and
Milwaukee, Wis.$ all of before us. His body is laid to rest, yet
Miss H. Adkins anticipates leaving the which he hes accumulated during the it seems not so. He was so After the usual services at Lion Bap least fifty- two children. While a slave Judge Elliott dwelt at length on the concert given by St. Agustine's Benevo
kind, he changed
masters
so
nine years he has been in Chicago. Mr. so gentle, so gallant and so gentlemanly tist church last Sabbath morning Rev. each change brought with many times new, and lynching of the two Afro- Americans, lent Society, at Central Hall, Wabash
city
it a wife
soon
., Kelly
Moore is an affable gentleman Liked by all with H. Johnson and Banks, in front of the Court avenue and Twenty- second street, Easter
and one in of Corinthian
his bearings. Baptist
Mr. Adkins of Lake Mills is visiting of whom the race may well be proud- whom Avondale administered church and sometimes more than oue. House in Pine Bluff on Feb 12 for the Monday evening, April 18. The
the he came in contact, he had many the ordinance murder of J entire
city T. McAdams
..
What he has accomplished in the short friends. As a member of the Imperial of baptism to the late converts in his Buffalo, New York The Judge proceeds of the entertainment are for
Mr.
.
Wm. Myers left the city last Tues space of nine years church charged the grand jury to spare no pains the benefit of Rev. Father Tolton's new
should
.
Ciub he
prove was active and sincere
as a, and a
day evening Have you paid for the paper you are or expense in attempting to discover the church
for Michigan for Colored
. Catholics
Miss H. Dangerfield returned Friday on beacon to the light saving to our and youth judicious to guide investment them promoter known to all of society, lively.. His witty habits and are jovial well. Friday Quite evening a creditable of last concert week at was Brown's given now reading? perpetrators of that deed and endeavor body is cordially invited. Doors. open Every a
from a Mrs. Belle Reed visited her old home to make them suffer the penalty of the 7 o'clock, concert begins at 8 sharp
visit to Oconomowoc In.
. of the prime
money of
. life he is called from
The grand rally closed Friday April 1, among us. He will be severely missed, Jackson Chapel, Concert Walnut Hills Company by the Jennie last week Rochester. law. But, of course, it will be impossible Admission 50 cents, children 25 cents.
and many
Ripley mourned The boys are all happy as the boats to find any- body out of the large num
by
,
many
Ohio.
but did not do as and remembered
well by
as expected who
. attended
there were delightfully will began ber who assisted at
to fit the murder
out soon
.
.
Original Jubilee Singers
Gardening.
is now in order. all.
Miss Watson is si k also entertained.
Mesdames A FRIEND.
the arches of the hall ring with the harm logg whose life he saved May 3, 1873, by The Probate Court of Memphis, last All Knights Templar, members of
onious strains of the cabinet grand, and driving away the carriage containing
week set apart a year's support for the Corinthian, St. George and Godfrey
brought down the house with applause. the governor out of reach of the
wife and child of Thomas H. Moss, one Commandries are requested to meet at
Mrs. Katie Ross one of the finest singers mob. Several shots were fired, one of
of the Afro- Americans recently lynched Bethel church Lyceum Hall at two
of Sioux City did ample justice the which grazed Kellogg's ear. Numerous
to there. o'clock Sunday April 10th. Come with
Harper a grand musical treat was given army, reaching Chattanooga in 1865 Landam manager.
The two Afro- Americans who were ac
in the form of a concert, on last Wednes where he went to work in the govern Juhn W. Pope, Artistic Tailor.
day evening at Krummann's Hall. A ment machine shop earning his first dol cused of assaulting the daughter of Post
fine orchestra was present consisting of lar as a free man Mr. Moore stayed at master Brown, of Lithonia Va., were Mr. R. K. Jones of 211 Third avenue
four ladies and eight gentlemen. A Chattanooga two years and then went pursued by a mob and lynched, of course. is now prepared to serve private parties,
very a prominent banquets, etc. in first class style. Atten
