to have derived its name from John$ 1.00. 66 Broadway, New York. Widows Quincy Ill., were
in the city
.
Sunday. HELP FOR STUDENTS.
think the party has a mission to reform Lynch, a Virginia farmer, who exercised
The Household Companion for November is at To the People of the United States. Any female student who can sew well, or
TERMS, STRICTLY IN ADVANCE: it upon the fugitive slaves and criminals The people of the Baptist church who
hand are is willing
. It's name learn
indicates
to
all the abuses to
and exercise its purpose sew
a guardian. It, oan have
is Since our
ex
last issue of the United Chris now laying penses
the reduced
who foundation in proportion
when they had for the bell to the work
committed sby
Single copy, one year ....$ 2.00 ship over the morals of all mankind. outrages filled to the brim with good matter. The chil tians Directory of Chicago Is able and willing to do. Only faithful and
, our attention tower.
Single copy, six months. upon persons and property drens and industrious girls
fashion will
... 1.10 sought re departments be allowed the privilegs
are.
especially has been called to a more of making this
important extra
These reduction
.60 enthusiastic.
Bingle copy, three months .. reformers sometimes Bowing
fuge in me
the" Dismal Swamp." This bar fine. The Budget Co., 220 Washington street Bos McCabe and Young's chines will be driven by steam.
When subscriptions are by any means allowed. topic; as far as we are informed, the Minstrels show Send for Catalogue
control of
ton
secure the the policy of the: to
barous mode of administering justice
to run without prepayment plundering of the lynchersed in the city Wednesday evening. It
work and
the terms
of
, are
The Coast
60
cents for began about the Mr. Howells has given the title of" REV, CHARLES
each 13 weeks end
and 5 cents for each party, and usually wreck the party as of the seventeenth Bohemia" to his new novel of American girl was grand H. PARRISH,
life have within.
the the last thirty two
odd week.
- years
Remittances should be made by Express well as the reform. They wrecked the century, and has continved to be practic which is published in The Ladies'Home Journal deprived more than 47,575 men, wo CANE SPRING, E.T.
Money Order ed more or less ever since on Rev. H. H. White preached an elegant
the
, Post
Office Money Order, Regis West-
. for
will tered be Letter received or Bank the same Draft as. cash Postage for the stamps frac. Republican party in Iowa a couple of ern frontiers, and in newly settled that November it is about. The the novelist prettiest says thing of I have the story ever men and children of their lives, and have sermon at Second Baptist church Sun
tional parts of a dollar. Only one cent and years ago, by handicapping it with Pro countries, when the done." caused 11,947 widows and orphans to day evening.
power of civil
two cent stamps taken. mourn the loss of their husbands and
Bilver should never be sent through the mail, hibition, and in Illinois and Wisconsin government is not established. In the November number of The Forum, Prof. Go
fathers
to Mr. John
We R. Carter's
have shop
decided for
to publish first- class shaving and hair
It is almost sure to wear a hole through Edward S. Holden
cutting
the, Director of Lick Observator
. East
,
this year by school laws obnoxious to a
envelope and be lost, or else it may be stolen. book containing the names of
Waxahachie 24
Persons, Texas. will tell what he really knows about Mars. side
who send silver to us in letters do so Main St.
large number of voters. It would seem
at their own risk. In the series of articles given the results of his those who have been lynched together
Who is chief R. T. or M. Y.?
Marriage and death notices, ten lines or less that investigation into our public- school system, con with those who are for and against There will be a
a very small amount of common law Thanksgiving dinner
81. Each
additional line Why don't sisters
ten cents the their
. Payment pay Dallas
strictly in advance, and to be announced at all tributed to The Forum by Dr. J. M. Rice, the lessness. The proceeds of which we will and supper at Husler's Hall. Every one
sense would dictate that a large number
November number will contain his study of the
must come in season to be news. money?
use to purchase a large tract of land and is cordially invited.
schools in Buffalo and Cincinnati
who cheerfully.
Advertising rates, 10 cents per agate line, each of voters pay taxes to
insertion an inch, and. There are fourteen agate lines in support schools which they cannot con Girls keep your eyes open for the boys To say that" Tales From Town Topics"( No. 5) families distribute of those it amongst the most needy Mr. H. Kurry from Hannibal was in
about seven are after
words you who
in an agate.
literature met their death by the city Saturday and
No single advertisement is is saying Sunday
less than the
guest
line.
$ 1 so much that all will in
No discounts allowed on less than three scientiously patronize should have been
Wonder if N. D. and W. J. are good stantly appreciate the praise. Clever, witty, lynchirg. Every citizen is requested to of Mr. and Mrs. Tutt.
months contract. Cash must accompany all
orders from parties unknown to us. Further most considerately dealt with, and that friends again. healthful in tone and sentiment, these tales, write us their pinion. We hold, that if
particulars on application, sketches and verses are nuggets of true gold. They one commits a crime he shall be justly Mr. John Shropshire is now a porter
they should have been allowed to con
Reading Wonder why our business men don't are welcome in every household
notices 25 where a generous punished
law
cents per
by the. Write
line each inser.
tion. No discounts for time or space. All duct the schools they established and take THE APPEAL? and wholesome sentiment prevails. for further on the train. He returned home Wed
50 cents left Thursday.
." nesday
head lines count double. niformation," The Ballot and Lynchers, and
The date on the address label shows when supported without any molestation up Rev. S. C. Gates was in our city last Town Topics 21 West 23rd street, New York.
subscription expires. Renewals should be GEO. WASHINGTON, Compiler.
week on business. Godey's
order Magazine for November contains
made two weeks prior to expiration, so that on the part of the state. Last in
among other things: 1471 State street, Chicago, Ill. St. Paul Normal and Industrial School
no paper may be missed, as the paper stope When good A Strange Sad Com The Banner City.,
when among the causes of the defeat, and first you have the blues read THE edy- Comlpete Novel
time is out..
By Molly Elliot Seawell. LAWRENOEVILLE
Minneapolis, VA.
It occasionally subscribers are happens lost or stolen that. papers sent to in importance, the McKinley bill will APPEAL for consolation. Illustrated by Eleanor E. Greatorex. The Home$ 50.000. is rapidly becoming fa A full corps of competent teachers employed
In case you mous for
do the notable events that
The have forms
young -Departmeut by Mrs. within the reach
men Henry Ward Beecher of the poorest. Sind
have,
receive began
not to
read
any number when inform
Our
due, us
mentioned. The fact that Hospitals. By Waiting for an Owner a
Thomas. PAY portion
five days generally be B. Preston taken of their bills in labor
by postal card at the expiration of THE APPEAL. Illust place here within a half year.ont of industry in some depe
9
here of late.. For catalogue
from that date, and we will cheerfully forward Wanted to learn and terms
Mr. McKinley rated by Chas, W. Rohrhand and the whereabouts of Here
was elected Governor Robert Earle it was that John L. Sullivan o the Principal, REV. JAS.
