General's office shows that there is no
excuse for these lynchings on the ground
that murderers or other criminals escape
through the law. During the year, twenty
three prisoners have been tried for capita!
offences and condemned to death; and in
only two cases have there been commu
tations. In the last twenty months there
have been eighty- five prisoners condemned
to death or life imprisonment in Texas.
Gov. Sayers will therefore join Gov.
Longino of Mississippi and other Southern
Governors in endeavoring to suppress
lynelings. It is a far more difficult task
than it may seem, and the anti- lynching
accomplished far lees
Governors have
than was expected, although they have
worked earnest in this cause.
No one could have been more earnest in
his efforts to break up lyneling in Missis-
sippi than Gov. Longino. He has discussed
it in every message to the Legislature
. He himself has gone to the county
seat when a lynching was expected. He
has ordered out troops whenever necessary
and has upheld and supported the Judges
in their opposition to mobs.
He did all in his power to secure action
by the Crand Juries against lynchers and
has worked in every possible way to stop
Yet he has at best saved
the disgrace.
four or five tives, while that horrible ed
dition to lynching burning at the stake
proviously unknown in Mississippi, has
finally invaded the State and was the fear
ure of the recent Corinth lynching.
Theas who oppose lynching call attention
to the fact that it is progressive, going
through an evolution of horrors. When
the mob first began this work in Mississippi
the lynching was done by a small body of
men, well organized, masked and on horse
back, who rode to the jail in the middle of
the night and compelled the Sheriff to
surrender the prisoner. He was taken to
the nearest tree and hanged.
The next chang, a needlessly brutal
one, was after hanging the negro to have
every momb r of the mob fira a rifle
or pistol at the body This practice has
been kept up sine, with the result that the
bodies of lynched negroes to- day- nt lenst
been burned- sre
scare ly distinguisable fot as those of human
