There are a few people in the South gates. He is a h- 1 of a Republican! The 3 papers, lege All$ 70 students. buildings. Climate unsurpassed. Depart.
people are prosperous cash securities and valuables in abso- I must register before ments: College Preparatory Normal, Eng
; why Candidacy for Republican Nomination lute lish, Music, Shorthand
safety,
. Boxes October 12, 1902 Typewriting
in our.
vaults and
can in
who realize that lynching is doing tinker with the tariff? dustrial Training.
that section of the country great French duels have long been con for Senate Meeting With Favor. your be had boxes for, trunks$ 4.00, etc. per, with year. us Store. St. apply For to catalogue or further information FIFTY DOLLARS IN ADVANCE
The candidacy Rukard Will pay for board, room
of Hurd,, light, fuel
harm. In a recent interview sidered quite harmless affairs, but, The Republican party has kept all Paul Trust Co., 138 Endicott Arcade. F. J. SHADD, A. M., M. D., and incidentals for the entire year., tuition
Judge Northwestern Board
manager of the Washing
now, they If some$ 6.00
have per month
been;
made absolutely fol get! Secretary. tuition 82.00 per term.
Silas Hare, formerly a congressman of its pledges. ton Life Insurance company, for the If some folks knew where to get 901 R Street, Northwest, Thorough work done in each department
Republican nomination their old knives, forks, Send for circula: to the
1
SO. It has been decided to use wax to the state spoons and president,
Washington, D, C,
from Texas, said: REV. JUDSON
senate is meeting with much favorable plated ware replated to look like new 8. HILL, D. D.,
bullets instead of lead ones, and the Morristown, Tenn.
" SHADOW AND LIGHT co
."
" No pen can adequately describe
mark left by the wax will decide This is the title Thirty- sixth district, in which he is to the GREENGARD PLATING
of an ataresting vol.
the damage that has been WORKS No. 190 East Sixth street,
wrought to ume of 372 pages, there of which running, and it is said that he will sur,
which satisfaction hunter shall
apolis Sibley
showing
the Southern Hon Mifflin prisé even his intmates by the near and tell troubles
States by Wistar your
READ
reason un this
,
of hs
THIS
1 of
BOOK
.
which and
,
. that
!!
lawful executions. Such occurrences ogize. If this is really according to city. Judge Gibbs ist only the Mr. he Hurd will has make resided at the primaries in St. Paul. thing of metal equal to new.
the code almost leading Afro- American citizen of Ar
anybody can musterkansas che dovr
, but about fourteen
is years
regarded, and is well and
deplorable as
are: The one
harm of
they do the
up courage enough to meet his oppo favorably known in the social as well Visitors to the city, and residents
the victim is small most prominent representatives of his THE
indeed compared as the political and business worlds. also, who wish to get first class meais PROCEEDINGS OF THE NA
race in the South
2000-3008
nent on the field. He is an entertain
- He native
honor
a
of.
with the evil that' 1 the perpetrators in ing writer, a finished scholar and a is born of Cincinnati, where he should Wabasha call street at John, between Godfrey's Tenth, No. street 502 Which TIONAL held NEGRO BUSINESS LEAGUE"
flict upon their own community The man of varied experience. He is self was in 1858. its first convention in Boston, Mass .. August 23-24
state Atlanta and, 1900.
, He College
Constitution has always avenue Board
says been
. and
the rooms
active BOOKER
made T.
, WASHINGTON
full of energy in Re by, President
the and Founder
and has day
.
and section. South been publican politics, and, week or month at reason
No greater field for re- must pushing has loyally
Afro- Americans of himself sup- able rates This convention
the forward. Best was the
for the meals first National
past Lorted in the city Convention of color
form half the party tickets but.
than turn century, until
to
He
public sentiment two
has
Regular
have their interests merged with those posts of distinction., and all filled creditably meals 25 cents. Sunday din. ed business men ever held in this or any other country
against lynch law is presented white. years ago, when represent he was sent to the ners from 1:00 to 5:00 p. m. a speci line of business, was represented: the farmer. Every
to men of the people to the, the banker
and determined. He was at one time judge of the police sixth district in the house, the
.
,
who are anxious to serve their coun- without his help by one or the other court of of this city, afterward register er been a candidate for an he elective has nev of- at alty Now, educator, the doctor, the lawyer, the manufacturer, the author,
