near 14, and" There eating need none. be" no trouble of that two in Connaught, and forty- eight in adopt grafting that to recommended do, though we should he must fearlessly plunge into the net
Ulster by our friend work of out- of- the- way by- streets con
. Larkin
buried of you kind will to- day throw," said the fish the on Snake shore;", for I will, if Mr. Egan reports the Land League's there is, of much Delaware to do. county The object, where to necting Carrefour the Buci Rue, and Mazarine familiarize with him the
days, see that they do not get into the water outlay at £ 126,000, and that it has on attain in the mixture is that the wax self with the slippery pavement of the
59,000
deep again hand £. will not crack
The." The cost to the English Government run in warm in weather cool, dry weather, or Rue de la Montagne Sainte Genevieve.
" Thank you very kindly," said the. If, however, There, in the heart of the students'
stock Secretary Bird." If you will do that, it of administering the Land act thus far upon trial, different proportions be re- quarter, when he least expects it, he
to will save time, and I shall soon catch the is estimated reduction to of have the been rent £ made 90,000 by, and quired, the foregoing can be altered, may stumble on some half hidden book
pleasure. enough fish for a dinner." the though after using them in several stall, ensconced from time immemorial
well" I shall be only too glad to oblige the Land Commissioners has reached ways we have come back to these.
£ 30,000. in a blind alley rarely invaded by the
in you," said the Serpent.
It is stated that two hundred and A Bulgarian Wake, tread of a stranger. Of such remote.
the the Bird waded
localities, a" terra incognita" to the fol
a river, and as soon as he caught a sh fifty Irish suspects have been released Chambers' Journal.
When the father of the family feels lowers of the beaten track,
person he threw it ashore, where the sake during the last fortnight. amateurs
The Observer says that after the re his end approaching, he sends for the like M. de Soleinne and M. Saint
that not
back water again. When the bird thought lease of Mr. Parnell all the other sus priest and begins to bargain with him Manrius well knew the value, and
mi- he had caught enough dish he came on pects will be released. Mr. Parnell about his funeral, and settles the de- profitted by them. They, and most of
stock tails of his" wake." Having arranged their illustrious colleagues- pleasant
shore and saw the Snake slowly mor- started Kingston from Monday Paris to morning London, arriving A dis all this and his other worldly affairs, he memories of my youthful days are
strength where ing What away. is your hurry?" he cried. patch to the Times from Dublin said feels comfortably prepared to leave the gone, and their collections have long
prai:" Stop and take dinner with me. that the rumor that Messrs. Parnell, world, and when his agony commences since been scattered to the winds; but
a in his the bookstalls still occupy their old
, have now caught twelve fish, and as I Dillon, and O'Kelly have been uncon
hand his jaws bound with cloth coigne of from
ditionally up
released unfounded It a vantage which let
,
was, us
dead/
,
before
,
I had eaten will ever
eyelids The moment hope, no future Haussmann
six
closed.
some
and
.
Executive would his
came
can was unlikely that the
you
circum- be all I shall want. You
.
will
,
his pulse has stopped all the pots, pans, succeed in dislodging them.
ra- have the other six, and we can take a adopt As a such result a course of representations de from jars, kettles, etc., in the house are
with pleasant meal together." States the British gov- turned upside down to prevent his soul Carlyle
to you," the United to and the Snorer,
of" I am very much obliged from taking refuge in one of them and From of
Carlyle's Reminiscences My Journey
ernment the four American suspects, Irish
but prevent either
.
Snake still
taken
con- said the
,
moving
to
"
were great care is
away; in the May Century.
confined Kilmainham Jail
,
1st do believe that anything could now in How I took tea& c., and went
of I not to bed
bliz- induce me to eat a fish at present. I their liberty on Monday pro- man or animal- especially a cat or dog is quite abolished from recollection;
old have no apppetite at all for Buch food." vided they would leave the country.from stepping across his body, as too well can I recollect the snoring of
he would
week, And he glided into the bushes, and was The suspects refused Lowell their freedom, on and be a continual turn nuisance into a and a cating my at tea, whole chickens and plates
down, lost acting on
to sight. danger to his family and the whole
instructions from Washington then of
great He need not be dainty" said the, ham vanishing before him I do now
" so
Secretary, Bird to himself; fish their immediate trial
,
been" for is demanded or re- community. Within a few hours of recollect! Also that I got up, probably
,
death the body is buried, without
will very not good accept food, my indeed invitation; but,, since I shall he lease. Cannibalism in Fiji, twenty coffin,- in four a shallow inches deep grave, and, eighteen left there any to opposite about midnight Brighton;, was but told could we see were no
all the more dinner for myself for years, during which time token of that or of anything but a dim
have three
It was only people who had been
But where are the fish?" flat coast with some kind of luminous
The Secretary Bird looked anxiously killed food that were considered good for many offerings of food and wine are gleam all alone where sea met land;
cau
milk from sick deli- that the-, little about hind had but fish- tails he caught a, pile could on bush, of and the.. twelve find At store had The no length bitten Snake sign and fish- tails he of in these did the came the lying not fish off grass to like be- be- he a, fifty Thus owing But Isles were. bodies it were never in to Those certainly the Namena not were eaten number who altogether is cooked-, died a in invariably wonder who a the for natural depopulated were year one that buried killed death feast 1851 the.,.., throne dug year linen placed village finally up the bag,, upon of, buried blessed carefully bones, which laid it. for At of by before there the washed the the good end pope is dead. the one, of put, Thus and episcopal man the in into every third then the are a descend or whereupon a not ing whirlpool never still a stream to more heard my I rather, had diastole effectively lair such to, again snoring or smoke and system. now Cyclops systole, a which pipe- of seldom whirl,, snor was and but
and fore Instantly pools, bottomless
eating the the And mae'stroms
fish. when the and sandy
would Secretary truth flashed Bird. through the mind of the war with Verata men they of carried Bau were off 260 at his Bulgarian death, unless is well, taken indeed, care there of is after any systis was nearly conjoined suffocated( sh me by!) cloud, for the curtains man
" That wretched Serpent bodies, seventeen of which they piled reason to believe that he has become a and by vanisbed plates of ham. I have
The
infec- have sick are by claimed the by shore care cne water. that,. as" my. He fast He fish has has shall as, indeed I eaten threw not, escape taken them!" them he, good into one ex on dragged they to finally on every a canoe were reached about species and received the the of sent town ovens indignity to with,. and Rews wild subjected ere, where they joy, opened stake it vampire If the is, riddled or body. and a nail In is the with very that is body driven pistol well case transfixed- preserved into shots the his, grave and breast, by then the is a. with that a ing indignantly dim out beastly some but of certain my passionate dashing gurgling bed recollection or and his demand drawer curtains gluddering of to at jump" open cease last, in,,
never heard of such an in Then, too, just the
think of number
I
ventilat- famous trick. earth stamped down firmly upon it, or the name of all the devils!" Whereby
description on him. I will find him, no matter of lives sacrificed in a country where sometimes it is burnt to ashes by a fire at least my heavy provisional friend
was a made of
sick or where he has hidden himself." So say- and where widows were strangled as a did awake; and I fell asleep and heard
bad ing him
the no more of
, angry for that night
bird rushed A Cheap-,
away
Plant Stand. Poor
an dis in-- pursuit had taken of care the crafty of his fish. ance who in matter sion when of course there! had Why been, on a one horrible occa- Gardener's We made Monthly a. very effective plant- stand there fellow seemed; not a a bad kind creature of healthy, after banter all;
nu massacre of Namena people at Viwa, for our front yard last summer in the in him, a merry
table tall Soon reeds he. saw a movement among the and upward of one hundred people had following manner: A cedar stake, two excellent dealer in vivid bacon eye, praiseworthy; probably an
family been. dashed" There toward he is the!" place he shouted., and he been ried as murdered bokola, to and the their ovens bodies at Bau car-, or en three into the inches ground in so diameter as to stand, was firmly driv- eat as a excessively British citizen, and of his 1849 snoring; but was he did to
be In a moment he had pounced among no less than eighty women were and of the required height, a small me at once hateful and terrible, -poor
con- the reeds, and attacked the Snake with strangled to do honor to the dead, and piece of board nailed across the top, fellow after allt
corpses lay in every direction of the and another piece, a little larger, nailed
burn great fury.
by mission station! It is just thirty years over this, so as to make a substantial. Why Americans are
" You infamous creature Dying Out.
bedding.!' he cried. since the Rev. John Watsford, writing base, and a cheese- box nailed to this. Chicago Times.
will teach you how to deceive a bird from here, described how twenty- eight Then we filled the box half full by put- A reverend gentleman of New York
disin- dis- of, of upon Snake's my him standing efforts and pecked to." get And away him in, until spite he stamped he of had the victims while fishing had. been seized in one day ting sphagnum in a couple over of it. inches The of whole sand, was and are has dying been out explaining, as he avers why is Americans the case.
ex- killed him. They were brought here alive, and then covered with the pendant lichen He found six reasons that were con
sick be only stunned when put into the ovens. which grows on our swamp- cedars, so clusive to his own mind. Americans
" You have cheated me of my dinner," Some of the miserable creatures at- as to effectually conceal the materials eat and drink too much; they gamble
barrel. serve said dinner the you of angry you right." if Bird I, were" and to it make would a bed tempted of red to hot escape stones from, but the only scorching to be filled used in with its plants construction in pots,, and tall the ones box in gambling in stocks and table grain; they as are well a as homeless at the
way to driven back and buried in that living the center and smaller ones around people, nearly one- half of those in New
constantly signs. the the had So Snake morning's entirely saying,, and devoured his work did appetite, not him he stop. began whetted until to eat by he captors tomb hours, whence later. He to adds they feast that were their taken more barbarous human a few them the ing the sides, with hottest. It trailing was portions shaded plants of by the to hang trees day, over dur- and pointed and York finally living ambition there in boarding is is a one false- cause houses standard of; decay disap of,
Wort. Upon the whole," said the Secretary beings were eaten on this little isle of such plants as glechoma, alyssum, ivy, success, the same being money.
Bau than else in Fiji. is
Bird, when he had finished," I prefer very hard, indeed, to realize that the finely by merely pressing a handful of Perfectly Amazed.
snakes to fish, and I think that for the peaceful village on which I am now sphagnum around the base of cuttings In the San Francisco Evening Bul
Vicks- future deceitful I shall creatures make, my who meals go about upon play- the looking such horrors has really as these been, and the that scene many of tween and pressing the pots them. into the spaces be- letin of the, we well observe- known that printing Mr. Rosenthal firm, Ros,
waing tricks upon honest folk."
of the gentle, kindly people around me enthal& Roesch, 588 California street,
be After that, this Dust, Dusters and Wipe.
bird gave up eating
have part in
actually taken them that city, said to one
. of their reporters:
the
and fed entirely
fish snakes He Do not dust, but wipe!" We all
upon know of St. Jacobs Oil
,
, and
Who
.
full did not trouble himself to catch the A number of Indians living on King's would believe it? The duster are perfectly amazed
are of little them ones to satisfy, because his hunger it took; too but many he pre- of measles river, California, and a few, were days ago afflicted, when with well toil that- may peaceful, under certain emblem circumstances of domestic, of of any the one relief who it affords is suffering at. the If suddenness with you know rheu
ferred the large ones, as one of them broken out, concluded to take a bath in become more dangerous to handle than matism, bruise or sprain, tell them to
was enough for a meal. His wife and the river as a remedy. Fourteen of them a six- shooter.
all children soon learned that snakes were, in consequence, gathered to their We are in dead earnest. An emi- use St. Jacobs Oil.
says were easy to catch and good to a
eat, fathers nent scientist declares it to be fact.
in the hap oy hunting- grounds. The French senate has agreed, by 145 to
N. C., and they also gave up eating fish. arrears offret in Ireland are esti: Do you know just what you are 53, to the scheme for enabling legislators
This Secretary Bird was a very influ- mated The at 839,000,000. doing when you brush away dust? to travel on any line for$ 25 a year.
