AN ENGLISH IDEA OF US.
What One Member of Parliament Gleans About
Americans.
By T. P. O'Connor.
HAVE been reminded by some books upon America I have
I read recently of the Italian proverb," Beware of the vine.
gar of sweet wine." The American people, by universal
admission the most good natured in the world, are" gey all to
deal wi" on provocation. According to one of these booke
" Round the Horn Before the Mast" -there are no captains so
cruel as those of the American mercantile marine; according
to another- The Closed Door" -rejected immigrants are
sometimes bludgeoned like cattle on the island where they
wait to be shipped back as" returned empties" to their own
countries; according to a third-" The New America" -the
American officer, Funston, is held up by public school teach
ers in the States as a model hero and patriot, while his e
ample is said to have suggested the torturing of the Filipine
by the frightful" water cure," and inspired the monstrous
order of Gen. Smith," Kill and burn!" And in this last vol
ume Mr. Beckles Wilson gives the following instance of the
frenzy of fury roused by a mere abstract disapproval of
negro lynching:
" A Georgia college professor, Sledd, himself a Southerner,
contributed to the Atlantic Monthly a rational, moderate article
, recognizing that the negro race was inferior to the
white, pronouncing emphatically against intermarriage or
amalgamation, and advocating the safeguarding of the ballot
against negro preponderance. But he strongly condemned
lynching and maintained that the negro had rights which the
white na was bound to respect. For this offenge Prof. Sledd
was burned in eingy by his students and resigned his char to
avoid expulsion."
The negro question by no means promises to solve i self,
as the Indian question solved itself." The Injuns," says Ar
temus Ward," are being druv nearer and nearer to the settin'
sun. It is rayther rough on the settin' sun, but I confess I'm
rejiced to hear! t." But the negro population has absolutely
doubled itself since the civil war. And the North, which
fought then for abolition, is now nearly as intolerant of the
negro as the South, says T. P. O'Connor, in the Chicago Tri
.
bune Before
