Chairman Fess Reports 3,224 Deaths
by Mob Violence in 30 Years
of Which 219 in North.
Washington, Dec.- By an overwhelming
vote the Republican major
ity in the House has gone on recor'i
against the crime of lynching.
It is provided in the bill just passed
that whenever a person, white or
black, believes he will not receive ia
his State the equal justice under the
Constitution to which he is entitled
he shall have recourse to the protèc
tion of the federal government as represented
by the United States marshal,
and that any person or persons attempting
to take him from the custody of
the marshal shall be fined$ 10,000 or
imprisoned fo ten years; that any
person participating in an actual lynch
ing shall be guilty of murder and shali
be punished accordingly.
Chairman Simeon D. Fess, of the
National Republican Congressional
Committee in urging the measure said.
" The interest involved in the legislation
is so paramount, it strikes me,
that the
House of Representatives
should not hestitate to take a position.
The report that has been made upen
the bill by the committee reporting it
gives some very startling facts about
the subject of lynching. It is a sad
comment upon the high standard of
our civilization, when compared with
other countries. The report states tha
in the 30 years from 1889 to 1918, 3,
224 persons were lynched of whom 2,
522 were Negroes and of these 50 were
women. The North had 219, the West
156, Alaska, and unknown localities.
15 and thre South had 2,834 with Geog
gia leading with 368, Mississippi fol
lowing with 372. The report goes 011
to State that in the State of Georgi
where 363 lynchings occurred the Negroes
paid taxes on 1,664, 368 acres of
property assessed at$ 47,000,000. Theso
startling figures demand the attention
of this Congress. The report which
will be of interest to all Members
who are concerned with the good name
of the Nation specifies the number o
lynchings in the various States. I recognize
that there is a feeling in the
minds of some that the bill is especial
designed for the protection of
tain people with little concern for acer oth
tain people with little concern for oth
ors and is to be applied to a certain
section of the country. That is really
not entirely true; it may be largely so
since in certain sections are found the
great number and affects one race
more than another. The truth about
the matter is that the law is just as
applicable to Ohio as to the South. Jf
it affects the latter more it is because
its crimes are greater. However, one
of the most indescribable lynchings of
all the country, indescribable because
of its lawlessness and brutality, took
place in my own State of Ohio. It
was the lynching of a representative
citizen who had
been very active in
the agitation of the promotion of temperance
sentiment for the prohibition
of the liquor traffic. He had become
very active, and had so wrought up a
portion of the population that he was
pursued by a mob which took the law
into their own hands in defiance of the
authority of the town. He was taken
by an angry mob, made up it was sati
by residents of one of the most respectable
cities of Ohio, and inhumanly
treated beyond description. It was so
amazing and so shocked the bette)
sense of the people, not only of the city
but it involved the interest of the en
tire country, that one of the best writ
ers in America was sent to the city to
make a study of the general morale or
the town which had permitted such an
outrage, especially in view of the fact
that such an inhuman performance
could take place in what was looked
upon as one of the best cities of the
State. The upshot of this sort of lawlessness
which besmirches the
good
name of any State was a legislative act
in the State of Ohio on the basis of
this bill, which we now propose for the
Nation.
" If we have a law in Ohio punishing
lynching and a law in the Federal
Government for the same purpose
there is concurrent jurisdiction both
by State and Nation over the cases 10
be dealt with by the State, if it will
do its duty and by the Nation if the
State refuses to do its duty. This bill
is no interference whatever in the enforcement
of the law in Ohio. In addition
it supplements the law of Ohio
and better still; it supplies authority
for protection in the States which
not afford protection. I meant to state do
