MOB LYNCHED
INNOCENT NEGRO
Blackman Did Not Arrive From Lake
Village Until After Shooting in
Argenta.
Little Rock, Oct. 12.- It now seems
to be clearly established that when the
mob of four masked men overpowered
Turnkey Folsom Davis and took H. G.
Blackman, a negro, from the Argenta
city jail Sunday night, strung him to
a telegraph pole on the corner of
Sixth and Main streets, and afterward
filled his body with buckshot, it lynch-
ed an innocent negro, if the crime
charged to him was taking part in the
fusillade which killed John Lindsay
and wounded his son, Milton Lindsay F..
Blackman's statement to a Gazette re
porter that he had been in Lake Vil
Saturday and did not reach Ar-
lage
genta until after the arrival of belated
train No. 106 of the Valley division of
the Iron Mountain Saturday night is
corroborated by reputable citizens of
Little Rock, among them R. E. Wiley
and George B. Pugh, attorneys, and
Sam Wilson, an Iron Mountain detec-
tive, who were in Lake Village Saturday
, and say that they saw Blackman
in that town Saturday morning. It
would have been impossible for him
to bave left Lake Village and arrived
in Little Rock before 9:20 Saturday
night, several minutes after the shoot.
ing in Argenta, in which Blackman is
alleged to have taken part.
Traiu No. 106, which ordinarily is
due to arrive at the Union station in
Little Rock at 6:50 o'clock p. m., was
more than two hours late, and did
not arrive until 9:20. It arrived at
the station in East Little Rock at 9:12
o'clock. The mail register of the Lit
tle Rock postoffice shows that the
train arrived at 9:25. An examination
of the train dispatcher's sheet reveal
ed the information that the train
reached Little Rock at 9:20 o'clock.
The conductor's reg ster in the train
dispatcher's office gives the time of ar
rival at 8:20 o'clock, but this is an er
ror, as the dispatcher's sheet gives
the time as 9:20, and the dispatcher's
sheet is correct, and the conductor's
record has since been corrected. It
was stated yesterday that in register
ing the conductor made a mistake of
an hour, and this is borne out by the
dispatcher's sheet and the statements
of passengers who were on the train.
Whie there are no persons who will
state positively that Blackman was on
train No. 106 Saturday night, it is
known that he could not have been
in Lake Village Saturday morning and
have reached Little Rock before the
arrival of that train in this city, as
there are no other trains on which he
could have traveled.
According to the statements of Ar
genta authorities and others who were
in the vicinity, the shooting in Argen
ta Saturday night, in which John
Lindsay was killed and Milt Lindsay,
his son, wounded, occurred between
8:30 and 9 o'clock, and between those
hours it seems to be clearly establish
aed that Blackman was on train Ne.
106 en route to Little Rock. On the
other han, however, there are persons
who were in the vicinity of the
Colum under aking estab ishment,
where the shooting took place, who
said that they saw Blackman with a
pistol in his hand at the time, and it
was on their statements that Black
man was arrested as having been implicated
with arres, and Charley Col
um and Louis Syies in the shooting of
the Lindsays and placed in the city
jail, from whence he was taken by
four masked men and lynched.
The statements of the witnesses
who are alleged to have seen Black
man were to the effect that Blackman
came out of his confectionery store,
which was across an alley from the
Colum store and undertaking establishment
, with a pistol in his hand
when the shooting began, and fired
at Milt Lindsay, who was making his
way across the street. Lindsay went
into a grocery store, and after the
door of the store was closed an: a
shot was fired and the ball passed
through the door and lodged in a
package of washing powder. Black
man is alleged to have run up the
satirway in the Tabor building. two or
three doors east of the Colum establishment
, with the pistol in his hand.
and to have come down without it.
search of the upstairs of the Tabor A
