TELEGRAPHIC BREVITIES.
Carl Schurz dined with Prince Bis
marck last evening.
Gen. Boulanger has gone to reside with
his family at Neuilly.
The secretary of the treasury yesterday
accepted bonds to the amount of$ 738,100.
Bonds to the amount of$ 3,250,000
were offered to the government yesterday.
At San Diego, Cala., a substantial
structure known as the" Old Market"
building was burned. Loss$ 150,000.
At Virginia City, Nev., Samuel F.
Black yesterday killed his brother John
L. Black in a quarrel over some property.
Dispatches from Buenos Ayres say that
the reports of the suspension of the bank
ing houses in that city are without found.
ation.
Charley Lyman, for many years at the
office
department, died Thursday evening in his
80th year.
Dr. Bliss, who was physician in chief
to President Garfield, is seriously ill with
affection of the heart and is not expected
to recover.
At Vinona, Minn., the Mississippi
since yesterday reached the highest point
ever known there, and cellars in the town
are flooded.
Emperor Frederick was less feverish
last evening and the favorable symptoms
give the hope that he will soon overcome
his present weakness.
"
The porte will dispatch troops to quell
the disturbance at Monaster, Macedonia,
where the Servians and Greeks have rebelled
against Turkish authority.
The French and Spanish military authorities
are strongly opposing the negotiations
between France and Spain for
two new railways across the Pyrenees.
A terrific cyclone passed over the eastern
portion of Quachita county, Ark.,
yesterday. Much damage was done to
builings, but no loss of life is reported.
The race for the one thousand guineas
stakes at Newmarket yesterday was won
by Briar Root, Sea Breeze second, Belle
Mahone third. There were fourteen
starters.
The people in a number of parishes in
Ireland have warned the priests that if
the pope's rescript against the league is
read in the chapels they will protest
against it by leaving.
The Progressive Labor Party, formed
in opposition to the Henry George party,
has been declared dissolved, it having accomplished
its object by the withdrawal
of Henry George from his party.
Officials of the Atchison, Topeka&
Santa Fe state positively that there is no
truth in the published report of the absorption
of the St. Louis nad San Fran
cisco railroad by the Atchison.
The pope Thursday received a party of
Spanish pilgrims. It was expected that
the audience would be made the occasion
for a Carlist demonstration, but nothing
of the kind occurred.
A bad condition of affairs exists in
Londres county, Alabama, growing out of
the recent lynching of a negro murderer
by a white mob, and the negroes threaten
vengeance. Four companies of
have left Montgomery for the scene troops.
