6
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SAT RDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1918
MOORFIELD STOREY ON LYNCHING
" Only that government is good where an injury to the meanest citizen
is regarded as an injury to the state."
The admirable manner in which the negroes of this country have met
the test of war should be a source of pride to every American, white or
black. Divisional commanders of the expeditionary forces have been warm
in their praise of the military qualities of the colored soldiers. American
negroes have proved themselves true sons of the colored troops who fought
so gallantly in the Civil war; black men have been awarded American,
French and British decorations for valor in the field. German propaganda
not only failed to incite negroes to resist the draft; it was impotent against
the loyalty of colored workmen. At home as well as at the battle front the
negroes stuck to their jobs and helped to make victory possible.
But there is another side of the picture- a shameful one. In a recent
speech before the Wisconsin Bar association Moorfield Storey, president of
the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, pointed
out the fact that while negro soldiers were giving up their lives in the battle
for democracy members of their race were being slaughtered by gangs of
ruffians at home. Since this country entered the war, Mr. Storney declared.
243 negro men, women and children have been killed and lynched by mobs.
In addition to these cases 175 men, women and children were tortured,
burned and killed at East St. Louis in July, 1917. At East St. Louis twenty
white and ten colored men were given prison terms; in all other instances
the murderers have gone unpunished.
One lynching, not included in those enumerated by Mr. Storey, did
bring official notice. It was that of Robert Prager, a German, murdered by
a mob in Illinois. Immediately following that crime the attorney general
of the United States issued a statement denouncing mob law and calling
for the punishment of the perpetrators. The cabinet held a lengthy discus
sion of the effects of the Prager killing; as the Crisis, a negro publication,
put it," A German is lynched and the cabinet holds a four- hour session over
it. Since 1885, 4,000 negroes have been lynched in the United States. No
cabinet ever met for four minutes over them."
Mr. Storey's speech was made as part of a national campaign to influence
popular opinion throughout the country on the subject. As Mr. Storey
explains, the fact that most of the lynchings take place in the South does not
make the problem a sectional one; the shame is national, and the only way to
prevent a repitition of the horrors is through educational propaganda. So
long as lynchers are allowed to go unpunished this country will not have fully
achieved those high ideals for which so many of her sons have laid down
their lives.- Denver Times
. -0
