Pioneer& Democrat
SAINT PAUL.
Thursday Morning- May 5, 1850.
The End of that Hope.
here.
We are getting along pretty fast up
The truth is we are importing the raw material
of society a great deal faster than we
can weave it into an organized social web;
and the tangled skein of our border life has
a dirty trick, occasionally, of getting knotted
round people's throats, in a manner that calls
for prompt adjustment.
We had hoped that the squatter settlements
on the frontier of Minnesota, would
grow into the main trunk of the body poli
tic, without that intermediate stage of social
anarchy which has disgraced the border life
of other western settlements; that for once
in the history of the west, the respect for
law and order, which has made the central
Minnesota communities an excep
of
.
mass
anarchic history of most west.
tion to the
ern Territories, would pervade its extremities
, and afford the same guarantee to life
and property as is enjoyed in the populous
and organized counties.
Last December we had to record for the
first time in Minnesota, one of those brutal
acts of popular vindietiveness, when law and
evidence, and every social right of the individual
, are trampled under foot to glut the
blind passions of a mob. This was when
RHINBHART was lynched at Lexington, Le
county, for the supposed murder of
Sueur BODELL.
It has turned out otherwise. A few days
ago we had to record a second case of
lynching in Minnesota. This time Wright
County was the scene, and OSCAR F. JACK
SON the victim. JACKSON had been arrested
on the charge of murdering a neighbor, and
after a fair trial was acquitted by the verdict
of a jury. On returning home, the
house in which he was domiciled was boset
by a mob of ruffians, his person seized, and
there, amid circumstances of atrocity too
horrible to repeat, he was thrice hung, till he
died by piecemeal, under a succession of
outrages whose more recital makes the
blood run cold; administered with such
deliberate and malicious cruelty, and with
such demoniac zest of greedy vindictiveness,
as to divest it even of the hideous apology
of mob justice, and prove it in every respect
cold- blooded, damnable assassination,
which stamps every brutal participant in
the bloody deed as a murderer before
ety, and before God. soci
