LYNCH LAW IN GEORGIA GIA..
The Charge of Criminal Assault no an Excuse
for Lynchings and the Record.
Gov. Atkinson of Georgia has been persistent
in his opposition to mob law, all through his
first term, and in his second term, which he is
now serving, he has undoubtedly done a great
deal toward curbing the excesses of the mob
spirit in his State. He deserves well of the
people of Georgia and of the whole country
for the unyielding stand he has always taken for
the orderly enforcement of the laws. Those
who are familiar with the conditions and the
temper of the people of Georgia appreciate at
its full value the service he has rendered. It
is a position not easily taken and maintained
in such an atmosphere by a young and ambitious
man. He has had to encounter fierce opposition
from leaders and masses, but instead of
diminishing, it has rather intensified his zeal.
In his annual message to the Legislature a
short time ago Gov. Atkinson took advanced
ground in his recommendations for legislation
that would stamp out mob law. He said:
" This barbarous practice does not decrease,
but increases crime. Having stained their
hands in blood, its perpetrators are more
easily led to again violate the law.
" That it may be ascertained whether or not
the officer having the prisoner in custody does
his full duty in every instance, I recommend the
passage of a law requiring a thorough investigation
in every case, and providing adequate
punishment when he falls short of the full
measure of his duty in protecting his prisoner.
When this is done he should be ineligible
election or appointment to any office until to
his disabilities are removed by the General
Assembly. The administrator or family of a
party taken from the custody of an officer and
killed should be authorized to recover from
the county the full value of the life, which in
no case should be less than$ 1,000." The
Governor further recommended that prisoners
attacked by mobs be unshackled, armed with
a gun, and told to defend themselves.
These recommendations were made, also, be
cause, during the past year, there have been
some particularly atrocious displays of mob
violence in Georgia. The Governor's recommendations
created a sensation, of course, and
especially that one as to arming prisoners when
attacked by inobs. Legislators everywhere reflect
very generally the feeling and temper of
their constituents, and the Georgia legislator
proceeds very cautiously in condemning mob
law as was shown recently in the resolution
adopted concerning the shooting of Postmaster
Loftin at Hogansville. The President was condemned
for appointing a negro as Postmaster,
but the people of Hogansville who attempted
to assassinate him were not condemned.
A New York paper has printed interviews
with some of the cracker statesmen on the subject
of mob law and the Governor's recommendations
. The concensus of opinion was
that if there were no criminal assaults there
would be no lynchings; and this is the plea all
over the South and in all of the Southern news
papers that defend or excuse mob law, the pur
pose being to show that the Afro- American
race, whose members, it is alleged, commit
most of these crimes, are a race of rapists, a
more degrading and damaging stigma than
which could not be hitched upon a man or a race.
Representative B. H. Hill of Troup county,
evidently a chip off the old block, stated the
case for most of those interviewed in the fol
lowing truly remarkable statement of the case:
" We in the South only lynch people for rape,
or attempted rape, and, in my opinion, there is
only one way to stop lynching, and that is by
preventing the crime."
Unfortunately for the Hon. B. H. Hill of
Troup county and his fellow legislators who
think as he does, the statistics are dead against
him. The Macon Telegraph, which is a rock
ribbed Democratic newspaper, white to the core,
printed an editorial article recently, a part of
which is as follows:
" Since Jan. 1, 1897, there have been
seven cases of lynching in the United ninety States,
an average of over twelve per month. These
have been divided out by States as follows:
Texas, 19; Alabama, 12; Mississippi, 10; Georgia
and Louisiana, 8 each; Tennessee, 7; Flor
ida, 6; South Carolina, Kentucky, and Arkansas
, 5 each; Missouri, 3; Virginia, 2; Arizona
and Maryland, 1 each. In the North, California
, Ohio, Nevada, Alaska, and Illinois have
had one each. Of the victims of these 97
lynchings, 80 have been negroes, 14 whites, and
3 Indians. Of the 80 negroes lynched 35
were killed for the crime of murder, while but
14 have been killed for rape and 9 for attempt.
ing it. Of the remainder, 4 have been lynched
for robbery, 3 for arson, 2 for suspicion of arson,
2 for race prejudice, 2 for murderous assaults,
2 for unknown causes, and 1 each for burglary
, writing an insulting letter, eloping with
a white woman, train wrecking, refusing to give
evidence, insults, and harboring a murderer.
" We perceive from all these statistics that
only about one- third of the lynchings have been
the outcome of crimes against woman, and that
more men are lynched for murder than for rape.
If there were no lynchings at all for the latter
crime the record would be dreadful enough."
So it would, and there will be no decrease in
the number of the victims of mob law as long
as men of the character of Representative B.
H. Hill of Troup county, thousands of whom
are scattered all over the country, fall back on
any sort of excuse, regardless of the truth or
falsity of it, to excuse or justify mob law.
Heretofore the white folks of Georgia have
done all the lynching, and for the most part the
blacks have been the victims, but this rule has
been broken. On the 14th instant a mob of
negroes at Gibson, Ga.," frustrated in their
plan to hang him, riddled the body of Josh
Ruff, a criminal, with rifle bullets, and left it
lying in the public road," a mile from the town.
It is said that Ruff had assauited the daughter
of a black neighbor. The whites have set the
bad example, and the blacks have begun to
follow it. The whites used to lynch only
blacks, but they long ago began to lynch men
of their own race, so that now a Georgia mob
will lynch a white man accused of crime al
most as quickly as it will a black man. The
blacks have begun to lynch men of their own
race. How long will it be before they begin to
lynch white men? A mob is a mob, a law.
less force, bent upon murder, whether it is
white or black, and when given sufficient rope,
will lynch an alleged white offender as quickly
as it will a black one. The record shows that
if lynch law is tolerated in cases of criminal
assault, it will speedily include chicken
thieves, insulting letter writers, murderers,
and the like.
Gov Atkinson is to be commended for his
efforts to curb the mob spirit of Georgia. It is
a dangerous spirit to be abroad in any State, and
is abroad in too many of them, and should
encounter everywhere the solid opposition of
law abiding citizens. T. THOMAS FORTUNE all.
