LYNCHBURG, August 31, 1835.
ANOTHER ARREST.- A gentleman from Lexington,
Va. informs us that on the 22d inst., the orderly citizens
of that little village were thrown into a state of no little
excitement, by the arrival of a man whom rumor had
designated as an active and influential Abolitionist from
the North- no less a personage than James F. Otis, Esq.,
a distinguished lawyer of Portland, Maine, and co editor
of a paper printed in that place. It appeared that Mr.
Otis had been to the Virginia Springs, and while on
his return homewards, in the Stage, had indulged the
" unruly member" with no little freedom, on the Abolition
question. He was understood to have as.
serted, in allusion to the rewards reported to have
been offered in the South for Tappan and his leading associates
, that the Southern people were" all wind"
that, if Tappan& Co. should come among us, we would
be glad to take off our hats to them, instead of arresting
and punishing them- and asked, if we were so eager to
seize Abolitionists, why he was permitted to travel un
molested among us- that he professed their sentiments,
Society, attended Anti
Slavery Conventions, made Abolition' speeches,& e.
and was as ready as they to suffer martyrdom in the
cause! As soon as these were made
facts known in
Lexington, a gentleman of that place,( being led further
to suspect Mr. Otis, from the fact, that, in going to the
Natural Bridge, he had refused to leave his trunk be
hind, as his companions in the trip had done.) applied to
several magistrates to procure a warrant to apprehend
and search him- all of whom declined, in the absence of
a specific charge, to grant the warrant, antil they were
at length assured that Judge Lynch would take the mat
ter in his own hands. A warrant was then obtained.
As soon as the company returned to Lexington from
the Bridge, the carriage was surrounded by an excited
multitude; and Mr. Otis, perceiving the unpleasant predicament
in which his imprudence, -to call it by no
harsher name- had involved him, endeavored to allay
the storm he had excited, by declaring that his sentiments
had been wholly misunderstood- that he had, it
was true, his own peculiar notions upon the subject of
Slavery; but, that, since he had visited the South, he was
perfectly convinced that abolition was utterly impracti
and that the were in a better condition
than the white laboring classes of the North-
he admitted that the exclusive control of the whole mat
ter was vested in the South, and denied that the non- slave-
holding States had any right whatever to interfere with it!
He made, indeed, such strenuous protestations of his innocence
of all evil design, and these protestations being
supported, upon an examination of his person and baggage
, by the absence of all tangible evidence of the contrary
, that, notwithstanding several persons in the crowd,
not entirely satisfied, were in favor of Lynching him,
he was, by the active exert ons of others, and the generable
ral repugnance of the community to punish, except upon
the clearest evidences of guilt, permitted to go unscathed.
It is proper to observe here, that, Mr. Otis urgently
requested that no publication should be made of the af
fair- or at least that his name might be concealed; and,
in order to save his feelings, it was so promised. But
two or three days after his departure from Lexington,
the Richmond Enquirer, of the 21st, was received at that
place, containing an extract from the Argus, printed in
Portland( Mr. O's place of residence.) stating that he
has long been a furious Anti- Slavery advocate; has delivered
public addresses on the subject, attended Conventions
, and disseminated, so far as his public influence
extended, the disorganizing and detestable principles
of that crew of fanatics- and warning the
people of the South to be on their guard against him
thus confirming the character given by himself of
himself in the Stage, when he was so eager for the crown
of martyrdom, but which he found it convenient to deny
when the said crown glittered before his terrified vision.
This extract, the gentleinen who promised Mr. Otis to
conceal his name, consider absolves them from that
pledge and they therefore feel at perfect liberty to hold
him up to the detestation of the South, as a dangerous
incendiary, and to the scorn of the Abolitionists them-
selves, as a dastardly deserter of his principles. The gentleman
was lucky in leaving Lexington before the En-
quirer reached that place. Had it preceded him, he
would, we are assured, have been inevitably Lynched-
a fate from which his talents and his personal respectability
, so far from exempting him, would only have rendered
more certain.
We deeply regret the state of feeling which the occurrence
of such scenes but too plainly indicate: Be
the consequences on those fanatics who have excited it.
They who sow the wind must not complain if they
the whirlwind.- Virginian. reap
