White Southern Editor
Tells" What
Lynching Means" a
( Chattanooga, Tenn., Times, April 13.)
A 15- year- old Negro boy was lynched
at Woodbury, Ga., on Thursday of the
past week, for having shot a police officer
who had arrested him on a charge
of larceny. The method provided by
law in such cases for dealing with of
fenders is a commitment by a grand
jury after an investigation of the facts,
a trial by a jury and the enforcement
of the verdict by a constituted judge
and authorized peace officers. The
killing of this Negro boy was, there
fore, murder; it was done wilfully,
premeditatedly and maliciously and in
the spirit of revenge. It was done,
too, by responsible citizens who are
sworn to obey the laws and to give to
every offender under charges his constitutional
right to" a day in court.
The lynching was, therefore, an act
community outlawry, otherwise known
as anarchy. It will never be known,
of course, what the offense of the vic-
tim was the only evidence that he
was" guilty" was the" clamor" of a
mob. He had shot an officer of the
law- whether he was justified or not
his executioners did not stop to inquire
. His tender years was no pro-
tection; he was needed as a victim" to
be flung to the wolves," an example to
others of what would happen to them
in any event, whether they acted in
self- defense or from a purely murder
ous propensity.
Besides the offense against lawful
procedure and the sentiments of en
lightened and civilized society, this act
emphasized in all its parts the total
failure of our present system to maintain
the ideals of a Christian people
we so often and so smugly boast we
are. If we were doing our duty as citizens
and lawmakers, this boy would
never have had a pistol with which to
kill; we, therefore, must share what-
ever guilt was his. And yet we take
him out and kill him for the very thing
for which we are more responsible
than he! He was ignored; perhaps
brought up in criminal environments
-neglected and in a way despised un
der the social order in which he was
living. The men who killed him had
had the advantages of education; had
been brought up in the shadow of the
Christian churches and had all the opportunities
for spiritual and moral enlightenment
a cultured community af
fords. That they should resort to an
act of savagery in defiance of every
uplifting an ennobling sentiment of
their bringing- up illuminates the solemn
truth, not that Christianity or the
Christian spirit is thus crucified and
set at naught, but that there has been
a total default of men in a Christian
community to model their lives and
govern their conduct according to the
professions they make.
In other words, this and similar incidents
bump us with the hard, unmis-
takable and disheartening fact that
ours is still a society, for the most
part, made up of pharisees. We shout
love of God, truth, righteousness, justice
, fair play and law enforcement
the housetops, and then we go out
from and lynch a Negro.
