The Georgia state police announced to the nation, Tuesday that
they have run into" a stone wall" in the attempt to apprehend the
murderers of the four Negroes at Monroe, Ga., last week. They just
can't find out a single thing, the boys lament to the
country's press.
Read this reprint from a story carried in last
Sunday's edition of New York newspaper PM, written
by reporter Tom O'Connor who was sent to Monroe to
cover the slaying:
" I have just seen the first proof of Eugene Tal
madge's election as Governor of Georgia. I saw it in
the basement of Dan Young's funeral parlor( for
colored) here in Monroe.
" An embalmer was sewing up bullet holes in one
of the girls, Dorothy Malcolm. He had already done
his best to patch up the rifle and pistol bullet holes in
the other girl and the two fellows lynched here Thurs
Nell Russell
day night.
" But nothing in the undertaker's art could put back the faces of
Roger Malcom or May Dorsey.
" Shotgun shells fired point blank don't leave much face.
" Their deaths or the death of some other Georgia Negro by lynch
mob violence was inevitable.
" When the votes were counted in the July 17 primary, and the
minority candidate Talmadge was declared the Democratic nominee, the
season on" niggers" was automatically opened, and every pin- headed
Georgia cracker and bigoted Ku Kluxer figured he had a hunting license.
" I don't know whether the murderers of Roger Malcolm and George
Dorsey and their wives will ever be brought to trial.
" I doubt it.
" But in two hours in this town I've picked up enough clues as to
the identity of the leader of the lynch mob and at least one of his hench
men that it would seem child's play for anyone with authority to have
the guilty ones within twenty- four hours.
" I intend to put those clues before the chief of the Georgia Bureau
of Investigation; but as I say, I don't know if it will do any good.
" This is Georgia.
" This morning in Washington, Attorney General Tom Clark said
he was ordering a full investigation of the lynching. At 7 p. m., the
FBI hadn't shown up. Two assistant United States attorneys dropped
in from Macon and chatted with the Sheriff for an hour or so this after-
noon, and then said they didn't think there had been a violation of any
Federal think the Civil rights statute would
The Collier's magazine article," Who Is A Negro"( August 3
edition) will probably have a lot of people peering suspiciously from
now on at all dark- complexioned Caucasians. Written by Herbert As
bury, it contains little information Negroes haven't been familiar with
right along, but it will certainly be a revelation for everybody else, and
a jolt, too.
The article states:" It is now estimated that there are at least
between 5,000,000 and 8,000,000 persons in the United States, supposed
to be white, who actually possess Negro blood. In reality, this is a very
conservative estimate .... Hundreds of prominent American men and
women who live as whites are actually white Negroes. Many believe
themselves to be pure white, since the original passing in their families
was done
Negro) has been absorbed and his descendants are constantly rubbing
elbows with some of the very ones who are discussing them ...."
( Anybody checked Bilbo's family tree, dearie?)
Perhaps the most shocking expose of the past few years came when
it was revealed that Lawrence Dennis, called the" No. 1 brains of
American fascism," was a Negro passing for white. The cause of Aryan
purity hasn't been the same since. The expose caused no end of red races
along Wall Street where Mr. Dennis had hob- nobbed with some of the
best, and in the State Department in Washington where, as a member
of the staff, he had been very chummy with a number of important
people.
I can name off- hand a list of prominent names who have crossed
the race line, among them a famous swing band leader, who when
queried by a reporter a year ago about his racial identity, dodged the
question but didn't deny it; two Hollywood motion picture actresses,
one a Phildelphia girl who has taken an exotic foreign- sounding name;
a nationally- known radio and recording songstress, and a curvacious
blonde famous in the band world.
Sometimes those who make the change are so afraid their true
racial identity will be found out that they become rabid Negro- haters
avoiding even Negro servants or menials. They live constantly in fear
of discovery and in the effort to throw a psychological wall around their
secret, often voice their opinions against Negroes long, loud and point-
edly.
From the July 15 edition of" The Propaganda Battlefront," comes
this tidbit:
" Elizabeth Dilling recently received a letter from an English friend
of Captain Ramsey, the British officer who figured in the notorious Tyler
Kent case. The writer chided Mrs. Dilling for saying that Winston
Churchill's mother was of Jewish extraction, explaining that the lady
has always been known in London Society as" Black Jane," and that it
was generally understood that her mother had come from Cuba and
had Negro blood. Churchill, the writer went on to say, is called by a
number of life- long acquaintances" the yellow nigger."
Perhaps so. Mr. Churchill has been called a lot of things during
his turbulent career, eh?
SHORT JOTTINGS: Author Sinclair Lewis is said to have finished
the first draft of his novel dealing with Negroes, etc. I don't know whether
to flee for the first bomb shelter when Sinclair's book comes out, or
hold my breath and trust in the powers- that- be. In other words, is he
going to characterize, satirize, or pulverize? An amazing man, that
Lewis ... Chicago is going to have a full- fledged race riot on its hands
yet, if Negro and white leaders don't get together and do something
about the tense situation on the Southside where the expanding black
belt is spilling over into the white residential district. Twenty- nine
Negro homes have been bombed in the area, and four social workers.
three whites and one Negro, were attacked and beaten brutally recently
as they walked through the district. They were all staff members of
Friendship House .... A legitimate complaint from one prominent Twin
City club member:" Why don't clubs have rules limiting the amount of
food served at meetings to two courses?" The silly and stupid show- off
tendency of one or two hostesses in a club, can cause other members no
end of financial strain in the equally silly attempt to" keep up" a front.
A salad and a dessert is sufficient fare for club ladies. Most women eat
too much anyway.( Including me, in case anybody wants to make a
mark. Haw!) .... Salesgirls say customers are complaining about the
below- knee length of the new dresses. There's supposed to be a fashion
lag in the Twin Cities. Women here are slow about taking up new styles.
for some reason .... Orson Welles' broadcasts at 12:15 p. m. over WTCN
( ABC) on Sundays can be included among the more startling radio
shows. His commentary on the South Carolina eye- gouging atrocity,
last Sunday, was almost as hair- raising as the" Men From Mars
broadcast that put him on the road to fame ... Tuesday afternoon, a jeep
carrying three Marine recruiting officers drew up in front of our Min-
neapolis office. A lad carrying recruiting posters jumped out and was
halfway in the door before he realized he was entering a cullud establish
ment. The driver of the jeep looked amused, but the young man carry
ing the sign came in, hastily deposited it in the window, and took his
leave. Want to join the Marines, son?
There is at least one judge on the Hennepin County district court
bench who should disqualify himself from hearing any case where
Negroes are plaintiffs or defendants. makes no bones about his
prejudice towards Negroes when he talks He to close white friends.
