THE BAREFOOT BOY
Many of us who listened to the speech of Wendell
Willkie last week, in which he summed up for us
the varied experiences of his global jaunt and drove
home their significance in this grave hour, cannot
help but marvel over the development of the" bare
foot boy from Wall street." Willkie has seen for
himself many of the things that the great liberals
and progressives of the country have been trying
to get across to the American public. He has dis
covered that the fire of freedom is burning brightly
in the hearts of all people, all races, the humble and
the proud, the little and the great, all over the earth.
Willkie sounded ringing call for America to
wake up and assume its responsibility as the cham-
pion of a free people, as the knight in shining armor
With
ready to do battle for the rights of man.
characteristic simplicity, Willkie outlined the many
" leaks" in our" reservoir of goodwill," the many instances
where America has failed to live up to its
responsibility and promises in this vast crusade for
democracy. He told America, in effect, that freedom
must be shared by all or none and that we in America
simply cannot have our cake and eat it too.
When he urged the people of the West to change
their thinking and drop their illusions about the
people of the East, he sounded the keynote of the
new world order. Rudyard Kipling who declares
that the East and the West will never meet has
turned out to be poor prophet, not matter how great
a poet. We Americans can no longer regard with
contempt the struggles of so- called backward peoples
nor treat superciliously those who" don't be
long." By such action we sow seeds of unrest which
will blossom inevitably in holocausts that spare
no one.
We had hoped that Willkie would have gone one
step further in his national broadcast and indicated
the significance of America's failure to stop the leak
in her reservoir of goodwill right here at home. The
triple lynching in Mississippi becomes today an international
scandal, for the treatment of the American
Negro has become a yardstick by which other nations
measure our sincerity. What does China think of
Americans who say they are fighting for democracy
and at the same time condone lynching of human
be'ngs because of their color? Why should Latin-
Americans and particularly the so- called Negro republics
believe the fine promises of our State Department
when they see Negroes fighting against the
color bars of American industry? Why do the
British smile when an American statesman who is
standing on the neck of a Negro asks them about
India?
Wendell Willkie has cracked the door and given
the American public a brief glimpse of what the
world must be and what America must do. It is up
to others in America to knock down the door and
show the whole truth. The time is at hand when
the American public must understand that the way
to prepare for a new world order of peace and
abundance is start here at home. If freedom and
democracy too fragile for America our fighting
in this war are will net us nothing.
