Nashville"
the exposition troubie?
.
can be ascended twenty miles or more. Pacine with the class of 1898.
find any clew to his whereabouts. The many people are expected from, ed out to kill every person he met. The
" It hate to tell you," hesitated Pilger
The.
Explorations bill for the week commencing
. and
Early Lac first
in a serious condition and will Waukesba, Kenosha, Fond du persons he came across happened" To whom
is did he say it
woman?"
From the accounts of early voyagers it ap An ambitious youth once sent his first June 20. will be an entirely new one of to be three women To your father."
attend and two children"
pears that the task of ascending" El Desa in all probability die. The ball entered Lake Forrest to..
manuscript to Dumas, asking the distin- the liveliest"
of the whole
And father never told me!"
quadero," as the San Juan was then called, her left breast, and ranged downward The following named persons volun season, and He shot them down and left them dead Well he
guished
", didn't
, novelist think it necessary.
to become"
his collabor- made up with the same dash
centuries ago.
two or three and spirit
difficult where
was they
than now, or perhaps fell. He also shot at six, don't
of those
"
the
Pilger if you
vessels it
days passing
tell me what was
through the lungs. Dr. Lochner, tarily gave the amounts named to de- ator. The latter angrily seizing the pen that has marked all entertainments of others who narrowly escaped. As soon I'll put on my hat this minute and go back to
the atteding physician says there is very fray expenses of Windley's
clumsier.
Mr. funeral: wrote" How dare
were
One Gage, who went up in 1670, says it took you, sir, voke together the present year." Mr. Silly's Recep- as the bloody work of Sibly was discover mother."
chance for her recovery. horse and" He the" I hate to tell
Mr. Chas Pfisler Dorman? you.
little"
between$ 25.00 Mr.& receivea
miles ase ed
120 an him
days to make the mob organized to lynch
him sixty was
.
,
a
continuation of the satire
,
"
tion
.
a merry" Tell me what he said
following reply
about me at once
: How!"
" dare you, sir,,
Manager of Davidson Sibly took to the woods, carrying his
$ 30.00
.."
, Mrs.
Nicaragua Fo
Kel call
the Atlantic and Lake."
me x horse?" Dumas' anger" Well,
vanish-" said
which Pilger, reflectively
runs," it was a
sail the through the recent series of shotgun with
vesse: s him and
the,
while at last
he," thcugh, accounts
says logg,$ 25.00 good many
Killed, for which Mr. years ago, and
and Mrs. L. it seems
By
An Explosion ed, and hard
. he laughingly to
when penned the follow Mr. Jack's burlesques, will be balanced mob
, yet, the
securely and without trouble had surrounded
Jake him
lavor Clarksville, Tenn., June 16.- By the Young kindly thank them. and a blame the doctor now. He did the best he
hic ing:" Send on manuscript
the sea your
,, my by"
the lake to The
from Bashful Venue,"
they full of beauiy
fall bloody fight was imminent
. The sheriff could."
ic opurest- here is nothing but trouble. explosition of an overcharged gas cyl Master Bennie Taylor met with a very friend, I gladly accept your proposition.' of the of Kemper county has gone to the scene" Go on!"
For such is the fall of the water in many and comedy. The star feature
with a large posse." The doctor saw you and came down
accident. He with some boys stairs.
places among the rocks that many times inder at the Clarksville ice factory this severe Probably
✓
Fatally Injured.
bill, however, will be the delicious Your father was waiting for him. He took
they are forced to unload the frigates and afternoon two Afro- Americans, George was playing a game called duck on the Middlesboro, Ky., June 16.- Special- pantomize Prof, Reynolds Re- Elected.
Foad them again of Orange
your father by the hand and said,' It's a girl
the
,
, with help of mules kept Munford and George Dick, wers instant- rock, and was struck in the temple with Ed Goddard an emplove of the Ming Blossoms, which
and"
Richmond, C. W.
will be given with all the spirit of gay Reynolds, of Springfield
Indians who
, O., was re
for that purpose by the few Coal was run over by that Well, Pilger just escaped with his life, bu
river and take care of the ly killed, and J. C. Mattill, the foreman
Jodges live about made the to lay in the wares, while the was badly injured. a mates large. stone At one thrown time by his one life of his was play dis-- company'a ing, and coke engine early this morn Paris, in the brightest and most sensa- elected principal of the Richmond ae says it's an honest for fact that she hasn't
is him
probably to a whole week
fatally.- Cleve
frigate passes through dangerous places to injured. tional style. Graded School last night.
land Plain Dealer
Defective Page.
