ACT OF UNUSUAL ATROCITY
ITALIAN AUTR
SERJOUS,
LYNCHINGS AS BY
seretary of the
Report Attempt Mad
Talluinh Hob Na
Separate That Attacks on the
Aug.& -The state de
WASHINGTON,
partment has received from the Italian authorities
a copy of the complete report
made by the Marqu's Romano, secretary
of the Italian embassy here, on his personal
investigation of the recent bach of
Sve Italians at Tallulah, La
The report presents the affair in a serious
light. As a whole, the Italian authorities
view the matter of the lynching as one of
unusual atrocity and without the mitigating
circumstances which had been urged
in the previous affairs of this kind.
In describing the first affray which led up
to the inching, Marquis Romano's report
states that Dr. Hedges was the first to
draw his weapon, and that not until he had
fired one shot and was about to are the
second at Charles Difatta, who was at
one
that time prostrate on the ground, did the
brother, Joe Difatta, are his shotgun from
the store near by. This last shot, it is
polated out, was in defense of the fallen
brother and was not a wanton attack up
on Dr. Hodgen
The circumstances leading up to the af
fair are described in detail. According to
this account, Charles Difatta was alone
when Dr. Hodges passed. There is no ef
fort made in the report to obscure the fact
that Chas. Difatta made the first offensive
overture. But it is contended that this
was not accompanied by the use of fire
arms or even a movement to Craw them.
It is sad, however, that Charles Difatta
upbraided Dr. Hodges in an offensive way
for having killed an animal, and accompanied
this by a blow of the fist. Then,
it is stated, Dr. Hodges shot at Difatta.
Whether or not the shot took effect it was
not possible for the Italian authorities to
learn, as the bodies of the men, after being
lynched, were disfigured and disposed of.
But at all events, it is stated that Charles
Difatta was on the ground following the
shot from Dr. Hodges' weapon.
At this point Joe Difatta made his appearance
, and seeing his brother down and
a second shot about to be fred, shot at Dr.
Hodges.
Then followed the lynching of these two
Italians, Joe Difatta and Charles Difatta.
The mob took them before they had been
arrested.
Up to this point, according to the Ital
lan report, only these Italians had figured
in the affair. The report goes on to state
that throughout the occurrence, the three
other Italians- Frank Dilatta, Joseph Fu
d'clo and John Gerami- were in another
street, and did not know what was occur
ring. It is stated that they did not take
part in the attack on Dr. Hodges, and
that they did not even know of it until
some time after, when the local officers
came to arrest them. This atrest was accomplished
and the three Italians were
actually placed in jail.
The report then brings out the alleged
fact that the mob, having already lynched
Charles and Joe Difatta, turned their attention
to the three Itallans under arreat
Two of these men. Joseph Fudicio and
Frank Difatta, were first taken from the
officers and lynched.
Subsequently and some little time aer
ward, the mob returned and took John
Cerami and lynched him.
Particular importance is laid upon this
feature, while it is mid there may have
been some extenuating circumstances in
punishment upon
those immediately concerned in, the affray
with Dr. Hodges, yet the time elapsing be
fore the second and third lynchings is
as an element of particular
regarded atrocity.
The full report has been forwarded to
the Italian foreign office and a copy of it
placed the hands of the state depart
ment. in
NEW ORLEANS. Aug. 8- Marquis Ca
millo de Romano left last night for Washington
. He was sent here as an envoy ex
raordinary from he Italian embassy in
Washington to investigate the recent
lynching of the five Italians at Tallulah.
The report of the special envoy and that
of Gov. Foster will clash at nearly
point. every
