From the Paris Mercury.
AN INNOCENT MAN HUNG BY A MOB.
Our readers no doubt recollect that a mob in
Arkansas, some years back, hung without Judge
or Jury, a Mr. James Barnes, son of Aquilla
Barnes, of Missouri, charging him with having
murdered the" WRIGHT FAMILY," which was
so inhumanly murdered in Arkansas- Barnes all
the tima declaring his innocence, which, how.
ever, availed him nothing. Circumstances have
since come to light which prove that he was inno.
cent of the crime for which the mob so inhu.
manly put him to death. This is truly gratifying
to us, for we personally knew him- we lived a
neighbor to his father, Aquilla Barnes, and the
Barnes family, twenty six years ago, at Old
Franklin, Howard county, Mo. His father,
grand- father, and uncles, were men of high stand
ing and respectability, many of them exemplary
members of the Church of Jesus Christ. How
painful it must to and
mother, the wife of his bosom, with her helpless
babes, and his relatives, to be thus deprived of
his society; and to think, too, that a mob hung
him without Judge or Jury, under the charge of
murder- thus blasting his fame, and putting a
s'ain upon his poor little children, his unoffending
wife, his aged father and mother, together with
his brothers and sisters, his friends and relatives.
But we console them all, that though he died a
disgraceful death, he died an INNOCENT man!
How painful must it have been to him to die so
untimely, in the prime of life and in the vigor
of health, under such a charge, his only consola.
tion must have been his conscious innocence ..
We have many reasons for believing him inno.
cent, but we insert the following from the" Van
Buren Intelligencer," an Arkansas paper, which
shows who were the murderers of the Wright
family,' and consequently proves Barnes to have
been an innocent man, most shamefully put to
death, charged with a horrid murder, about which
he knew nothing. Let this be a warning to all
who have any love for mobs or law. The
following is the extract alluded Lynch to: --
