and return home and misty wings; there is scarcely enough of ited tations for the are cure
these warm mornings to stir the trees on the
of malaria and
and at word
accuracy
a
the
.
hot and dusty as in of
,
almost anything that Battery, and the piers are as
stands ineanwhile the dor- days. The Park and the Squares are origin of cholera
straggler and re- fine play- grounds for hundreds of rejoicing lations of London
are never allowed children, and in watching their unrestrained minute investigations
almost all towns hav- sports we felt regret that the Fountains could the circumstances
The eats of all not have the same liberty to play. Two or ease:
the ducks are salt- three hours a day is not enough for those" Let every
flesh also, for sea blithe water- spirits. We believe, however, the
of fish are salt- Inspector has taken them in training for the be quickly removed
eel is very fine. purpose of forming a battalion of street- cleaners, itations, such
Broadway is now in its glory. Mustachoed cess- pools,
blubber even is nuisances"
with lem-
gentlemen slender
.
twirl canes
frogs toads, shell young We do not
,
, snails, gelatin- on- gloved hands, as they parade the shady side
The various grains of an afternoon. Ladies in pink, and blue, and are ever connected
bread, not un- violet, and pearl- green, and couleur de rose there can be no
cooked on the side glide up and down with lighter steps than wont, habitations" Let all.
generally by steam, and fresher complexions. Beggars on the side
divers sorts, among walk loil back against the walls and fire- plugs frequently Let the cleansed
with the far niente air of Neapolitan lazzaroni.
European, as
to drained
which for the would introduc- be Water A few- mortals carts go. doomed by, sprinkling to endless down hurry the, take dust a. moisture tions be of every
Let all
discoverable only chance to smile as they look out of omnibus
pork disagreeable fat into these pe- gone windows: as we. One are, sees reader their- for faces our and glimpse they are of and impede Let without every ventilation
is universal May is only out of the hack window of editorial mission of fresh
are ginseng, a kind life.-N. Y. Tribune. about noon, when
formerly a royal mo to be dry.
The True Remedy.
grown on the em Let dry
, but has latterly The Augusta( G₁) Chronicle. foremost sing. in place of
, and some part of among the journals of the South in all that per Let the use
nests of the sea tains to enterprise and improvement, makes especially under
substance, in appear- some intelligent observations on Mr. CLAY'S the body is heated
a gum. reckoned letter concerning emancipation and colonization." Let a poor
when very high very prices clear.. It" savs The: Caucasian race outnumbers the African in" cooking Let the wearing or for
ounces each, sell in the United States, at this time, as six to one. ing be avoided
brought from the No more negroes are coming into the country Let a flannel
Archipelago, as like- from abroad, whilst Europe is sending over a the belly.
sea slugs, brown- million of white laborers, to reside permanent N. B. This
seven inches long. ly and multiply rapidly in the American Union,
, as are the exotic every four years. The ceaseless progress of checking the
, fins, and tails of this ever- augn.enting disparity in the number common during
will eat every of the two races, and of two distinct classes of disease has, in
Lieut. Forbes's five laborers, musi eventuate in changing the chai to commence
acter, complexion, habits, customs, and laws of and in this stage
society. It cannot remain stationary: and it however, be
Virginia. is the part of sound conservative statesman- quently unattended
of Virginia deep regret sincere- to so ship as to to foresee advance coming the best events interests, and of shape the them com- that fatal cholera delay has must
are every year munity. Although we do not believe that the the early stage
behine them, to take convention to form a new constitution in Ken- griping or cramp
West, they entirely tucky will take any action in favor of emanci- ease can be most
Let personal
, as fertile, as pation, immediate or remote, nevertheless the
Let every
Providence with time will come when property in slaves will
and physical
that to the the sun comfort ever cease The to gradual be desirable operation in that of the State laws of social let exposure to
avoided.
civilized com
almost unnoticed. and industrial economy, in every Let crowding
region of country munity. carries with it a sanative for the ills.
a region abound- whatever they may be, of the system ills apartments be
Let sleeping
become aggravated and inflamma
.
quality, the primeval which might
Let fires be
evidence by its tory if rudely and arbitrarily dealt with. Great
fertile nature of the changes in the body- ocial or politic cannot take ing or adjoining
never yet known place suddenly save hy convulsions, which period of most
region capable of may peri! the life itself. A chronic disease, under exposure
Let all bedding
to its hundreds of fixed in the system. implying a gradual growth.
count its tens: a requires to be removed by slow and gradual during winter
of which are be- means, and by means in harmony with the vi- summer to the
lately, they were tal principle. Rather, we may say, it is the ac
pleasant valleys, tion of the vital principle itself, through subor
mountains, the dinate means, that finally throws off the morbid The power of
hot breath of fever elements from the system.- Balt. American. wheat or pasture
by the admixture
sparkling of whose in
coolness through Rascality in Maine. salt. In the
ground. are as those Rev. Danel L. Quimby, of Lisbon, who for al Agricultural
of Syria. the last fifteen years has been a circuit preacher, that fifty- four
homes beyond the and who, almost to the moment of his departure produced larger
magnificent country, an had been above suspicion, and has enjoyed the Belgian carrots
years been entire confidence and respect of a large circle of friends manure and
perfectly obvious. and relatives, has eloped. For a year or two half the cost.
be raised in great past, Quimby has been residing at Lisbon, Me .. used as top- dressing
: but such por- his native town, where he owns a small pro- spread, as that
consumed, are left to perty, and where his wife and children, three ammon a, which
The most valua- in number, still remain. Two weeks ago last the manure. To
that
Redfield injurious as
that which Monday he left his house to to
Dominion
.,
- go
& c. to be next
chombe farm,
rest in
has been left to It seems he went to Wayne, the residence of
the of two the parts fact that can Mrs. hind Lawrence her 3 children, his, paramour the youngest, who of has whom left be is which nothing he but grows soot
flourish. This state a year and a half old. Not finding her in reali of twenty- five
rapidly undergoing a ness, he remained in that vicinity through the
Richmond
distant when the week, and on the Sabbath enlightened the
tight the bonds of good people of that town with instructions upon We learn that
in very deed, what mortality, virtue and religion. On the followed to the Trustees
politically one and the ing day, he took Mrs. Lawrence to bring her to adelphia, as
all striving to ad Lewistown, where she has relatives residing cine in place of
they came there, tarried over night, and since Dr. T. is a
condition, and our fu- that time they have neither been seen nor heard years a Professor
great pleasure to of .--- N. Y. Express. phia: stands high
Western Virginia is his talents and
Singular Death.
be the true di At a Cotton Press in Savannah some negroes not, be a valuable
to give the to the society of
is, and, which is were bantering each other upon their respective
she can be.- Rich- powers of butting. Finally one of them boasted
that he could butt with his head against a
square bale of cotton with sufficient force to On Saturday
TRUNK, marked turn it over. Though warned, he made the quitted upon
Va and ran with his head against the Mrs. Charlotte
Alexandria" experiment
.,,
,
which the owner can bale from a distance of twenty feet. He suc- and sent on to
subscriber and paving ceeded, but the result was fatal. His neck on two further
JOS. NEVETT,. broke, and he died instantly. name of J. L.
