Great Riot in New York!
We regret to hear of the occurrence of a
of disgraceful riot in New York, on the night of
the 10th instant which resulted in a serious
of
,
,
loss of life. Many of our readers are aware
that for some time past, Forrest, the tragedian,
, has been denouncing Mr. Macready, his great
English rival, through the papers, for some
fancied slight put upon him by M., during his
last visit to England. Forrest, with that insane
- vanity peculiar to over- praised actors, has ap-
pealed to national prejudices to sustain him in
his quarrel, thereby acquiring for himself the
contempt of all honorable men He
sovereign.
, is, however, a demi god with the rowdies of
New
,
and orderly portion of the com
the intelligent-
, unity, hape best vied to the United States,
during his present visit to the United States
to upon him by a
- cowardly and murderous attack upon a theatre,
defenceless females! On the night
filled with
of the Astor Place Opera Housty, spe interrupte
ed by an attempt at Piot, within the walls of
the theatre The attempt was successfully re-
.
,
sisted, and the play proceeded. On the ensuing
night, Mr. M. performed before a large audience
, and no disturbance of any kind occur
, it seemed that the riot had been effectual-
ly quelled; but it subseqently appeared that
.
the rioters were only preparing for a more des
. 10th, the
- perate attack. On the night of the
Theatre was assailed by a mob, several thou
sand the
strong audience were rudely expelled
,,
Mr. Macready had to fly for his life, and the
building was sacked and set on fire. The military
being ordered out, came promptly to the
, aid of the police. The mob was fired upon, and
after considerable resistence dispersed; the
flames were extinguished and the theatre saved.
Further particulars are given in the following
despatch to the New Orleans Picayune:
The fight between the military and the mob
was desperate, and the number killed and
wounded is estimated at from thirty to forty.
The military and police finally obtained
session of the ground, and cannon loaded with
grape were planted in front of the theatre.
The city was in an uproar all night, and en-
trenchments are being thrown up by the military
this morning to resist any renewal of at-
tack. The mob is hanging about in great excitement
.
There was rumors that Macready was killed,
but he escaped unhurt.
A number were and wounded who
were not engaged in killed the riot.
