BURNING A NEGRO AT THE STAKE IN ALABAMA.
We have already recorded the murder of Miss Thorn
ton, a respectable young lady, near Gaston, Ala
bama, by a negro man- The horrible affair created
the greatest excitement, and subsequently the mur.
derer was forcibly taken from the custody of the
civil authorities by a mob, and put to a terrible
death, an account of which is thus given in the Mari
on Republican of the 28th ult.
On Friday last, after due preparation they carried
him to the spot where he so cruelly murdered his
innocent victim, and burnt him alive at the stake.
About three thousand persons were present, who
witnessed, with various emotions, the dreadful spectacle
. We were present, but hope that we will
never again witness a scene like it. The pyre was
composed of several cords of light wood, in the cen
ter of which was a green willow stake, selected in
consequence of its indestructibility by fire.
On the top of the pile of light wood the criminal
was placed and securely chained to the stake. While
in this sitution he confessed his guilt, stating that
he had no accomplice- that he was actuated by lust
alone that he had attempted to violate her person
but had failed, and to conceal the attempt he had
cruelly murdered her by beating the poor innocent
creature with a stump; that while he was doing this
she implored him to carry her bone to her father,
and that she would conceal the violence he had inflicted
. He then left, but soon returned, and after
again beating her he concealed the body in the very
hole where the stake was planted to which he suffered
.
After this confession was made the match was ap
plied, and in a few moments the devouring flames
were enveloping the doomed negro; his fearful cries
resounded through the air, while the surrounding
negroes who witnessed his dreadful agony and horrible
contortions sent up an involuntary howl of hor
ror. His sufferings, though excruciating, were short;
in a few minutes the flames had enveloped him entirely
, revealing now and then as they fitfully swayed,
hither and thither, his black and burning carcass,
like a demon of the fire, grinning as if in hellish
over
triumph at his tormentors. Soon all was
nothing was left but the burning flesh and charred
of this human devil, who could thus deli
skeleton berately perpetrate so foul a crime.
