The Louisville Riots.
The Louisville Journal, gives the following
count of the late terrible
The circumstances as detailed to us, and the
confession of some of the miserable wretches who
were made the victims of their insane folly and
murderous violence, show that these assaults up
on unoffending and innocent native born citizens
were premeditated, and that the blame attaches
to others who are as yet unnamed.
We have not time to
however, and are sure that it will be proved by
respectable witnesses, that every act of bloodshed
was begun by foreigners. That in every instance
where mortal violence ensued, the beginning of
the riots was an unprovoked slaughter, by foreign
ers, of peaceable Ainericans while quietly passing
in the streets at a distance from the polls. This
infuriated the populace, and a prompt and terrible
resort to mob violence by which many foreigners
were killed and much property destroyed, was the
consequence. In the first ward, about 9 o'clock in
the the was
quietly at the polls, Mr. Geo. Burge, a respectable
and quiet American citizen, was brutally assaulted
by a party of Irishmen on Jackson st., between
Jefferson and Greene- without having given
any provocation, he was knocked down and
horribly beaten with stones and clubs. He at
tempted to escape from the fiends by whom he was
attacked and ran into the alley of an adjoining
house, where he was followed by his bloodthirsty
assailants, and cut, stabbed, and beaten, until he
was supposed to be dead, when one of these inhuman
brutes deliberately opened his knife and
proceeded to cut the throat of the murdered man.
When this act of violence was made known, a par-
ty of Americans started in pursuit of the murder
ers, who were subsequently arrested and lodged
in the
In the afternoon, between three and four o'clock,
several Americans were fired upon and and severely
wounded while quietly riding or walking
by the German brewery on Jefferson st., near the
Beargrass bridge. Among these were some gentlemen
from Jeferson county and several respect
able citizens. One gentlemen who was fired at
was riding in a buggy, with his wife sented by his
side. About the same time, a perfect shower of
shot and bullets were rained upon every American
passer- by, from the windows of some houses
occupied by Germans upon Shelby street, in the
neighborhood of Madison street.
As soon as these occcurrences were made known
it was ascertained that large bodies of foreigners,
armed with shot guns and rifles, had assembled
in the neighborhood of the brewery and also on
Shelby st. An indiscriminate slaughter of Ameri
citizens was apprehended. An immense crowd
of excited, maddened, infuriated Americans assembled
; they were fired at from the windows of
the brewery and the houses on Shelby st., and in
se to arrest these offenders, several men
were badly wounded, and the incensed and infuriated
the houses from which the shots were fired.
In the 8th ward the most serious disturbances
occurred about 6 o'clock A. M. A Mr. Rhodes,
in company with two friends, all American citizens
, was quietly passing along Main street, near
Chapel, when they were set upon by a party of
ten Irishmen, who with horrible caths swore they
would clean the streets of every American. Fifteen
shots were fired upon them. Rhodes was
killed, and both his companions badly wounded,
one of them seriously. The Irishmen then ran up
Chapel st., and on being pursued took refuge in
a house at the corner of Chapel and Market sts.,
whence several shots were fired by the inmates,
by which several American citizens were wonud-
ed and two were killed -- a Mr. Graham and a Mr.
Hobson. The firing from the house continued
for some half an hour. The Irish were armed to
the teeth with firearms of every description, while
the Americans were almost entirely unarmed, and
were obliged to go to their homes to procure arms
to defend themselves and their from the murder
ous fire of the insane wretches who had made this
attack upon them. Between 6& 7 o'clock a' sufficient
force had assembled to capture the murderer
of young Graham; an attempt was made to hang
him, but we learn that he was still living.
In the meantime a fusilade of shot guns and ri-
fles was kept up against any American passing
by the row of houses at the corner of Eleventh
& Main, belonging to an Irishman named Quinn,
a brother of Father Quinn Roman Catholic
a
,
Priest. Several Americans were wounded by
shots fired from the premises, and the attention
of the crowd was given them. They were filled
with Irishmen, and with loaded arms, as the sequel
proved beyond a doubt. An attempt was
made to drive them out, and the houses were fired,
whether on the inside or outside we do not know
.
While burning the frequent reports showed that
they were well provided with firearms, and the
confessions of a poor miserable devil who was res-
cued by Capt. Stone, proves that they with arms
and contained thirteen kegs of powder provided
for the occasion. The houses are still burning
,
as we write, and the riot is not yet subsided.
We have neither- space nor time to enter into
any particulars. A number of Americans were
slain by the foreigners, and a number of the for-
met a retribution. We do not
know how many have been killed, but have already
of some twelve or fifteen in all, and some
twelve or thirteen have been more or less
ously wounded. We will give details to- morrow danger-.
