It would seem that those who advocate
the claims of Mr. Fillmore, if we were to
judge from what they say," are par excellence
Union- saviors,"" Middle ground men,"
" National men." In the Convention which
nominated him Mr. Kellinger, of Pennsylvania
, offered for adoption the following
resolution:
Resolved, That the National Council has
no authority to prescribe a platform of principles
for this Nominating Convention, and
that we will nominate for President and
Vice- President no man who is not in favor
of the introduction of
into territory North of 360* 30 by Congressional
action.
The Convention refused to pass this resolution
by a test vote of 141 against to 59
for it. And the Seventh Resolution of their
platform leaves the question of Slavery
where the Cincinnati Platform leaves it.
Fillmore, in his letter of acceptance, does
not utter a word in favor of Freedom, but
fully endorses the action and resolutions of
the party that nominated him. He has
written several letters and made several
speeches since his nomination, but has not
written or spoken a single word upon the
troubles in Kansas- upon the extension of
Slavery- upon the admission of Kansas as
a Free State, or proposed a single remedy
for the evils that now inflict our country.
But if we succeed- if we elect his opponent
, John C. Frement, Fillmore has declared
in his Albany speech that we should
not have the madness or the folly to believe
that the South would submit to the election
of such a Chief Magistrate"-" that it would
inevitably lead to the destruction of our
Union." The utterance of such a sentiment
is moral Treason, and in the face
that provision of the Constitution of the
United States which declares that the person
having the highest number of votes for
President shall be the President, if such number
be a majority of the whole number of
electors appointed."
John C. Fremont says a practical remedy
for the evils in Kansas is to admit her as
a Free State. Buchanan and Fillmore dare
not say as much, for they are both the candidates
of the Pro- Slavery sectional party.
Parties that will not permit the friends of
Fremont to hold a meeting even in the city
of Wheeling, in sight of our own native hills,
without resort to mob violence; parties that
will murder and drive from the State those
whose only offence is reading and speaking
the very sentiments of Thomas Jefferson,
George Washington and Madison upon the
subject of Slavery. Free Speech and a Free
Press is guaranteed to the People of the
United States in their Constitution, but the
Democracy of Buchanan and the American- al
ism of Fillimore will not permit in the
Southern States the exercise of either Wel
.
speak what we know. What citizen of Bel-
would have believed that in the
mont county
city of Wheeling, bound to us by so many
ties- where but very few slaves are held-
that prominent citizens, formerly of our
county- we allude to Capt. Pumphrey and
Dr. Thoburn -- with their associates could
not be permitted to have their sentiments
expressed without having their meeting broken
up by a mob, and their speaker threatened
with Lynch Law.
" Tyrants look well to your path,
A cloud shall come over your fame,
And the terrible storm of a Free People's wrath
Overwhelm you with anguish aud shame.
To year and to ages unborn,
Throughout every kindred and clime,
Ye shall be as a by- word, a hissing and scorn,
To the pure and the good of all time;
The curse of the slave and the taunt of the tree,
Henceforth and forever your portion shall be."
We expected to find this act publicly
condemned, but to our amazement we find
it justified, as will appear by the following
extracts from papers of that city. The Argus
,( Buchanan,) in speaking of the matter,
says.
" He( Smith) began to think of escaping
after he had reached the Post- Office corner, the
which is about a square and a half from the
hall door and made to when
attempt run
, an
the crowd gathered upon him and a general
skirmish ensued, in which wounds were in- ror
flicted on two gentlemen, Mr. Ward and
Mr. Harding. The latter is a young man
who was not in any way connected with the
affair, and received his wound, which was
upon the hand, accidentally. Mr. Ward's
wound is of a very serious nature, but is not and
agregarded as mortal. During the melee, Smith He
made his Market street, and suc- ye
ceeded in taking refuge in the McLure song
House, was and privately the
taken by the officers and lodged in jail. The
most intense excitement prevailed among
our citizens when it was known that Mr.
Ward had been stabbed, and if they could this
have then got Smith in their power he would
have had the full benefit of Judge Lynch's but
Law. He is now in jail awaiting a preliminary
examination, and quiet is again re-
stored to our city.
" After what occurred last night, we think
will be a long time before the shrickers crat
will find man with hardihood enough ing
attempt to make another public speech in
this community, and that their aspirations and
rendering themselves ridiculous are fully both
satisfied. If not, they will not come off so safe
easily at the next signed
The Wheeling Times, a Fillmore paper,
says:
" Whatever Virginia may do in the future, ers
is not now prepared for Fremont Asso- more
ciations, with all the old Abolition elements a
champions, and all the old heresies and
exploded fanaticisms, rag, tag, and bob- tail,
mustered under his banners. The gradual his
emancipationists, and the opponents of the
Kansas Nebraska Bill the
-- even opponents
more Slave Territory- don't wish anything
to do with Fremont congregations that
there is
an overwhelming sentiment in him
State which will put them down when- and
ever they are attempted."
must
This is the same spirit that has crushed man
every Free State press in Kansas- murdered make
citizens for no other crime than loving augua
Liberty- and seeking by similar outrages Union
enslave mankind is throughout the world. elected
