Burning a Negro at the Stake.
Painfully Interesting Particulars.-
We have already published two imperfect
accounts of the following Lynch law scene
in Kentucky, but nothing so minute as
the extract we append, from a letter to the
Maysville Eagle, written by an eye wit
ness. The writer says: --
" On New Year's day, the annual negro
sales took place at Troy, the county seat,
and there was quite a collection of people
there everything went on smoothly until
about 3 o'clock in the evening, when Mr.
James Callaway, a brother- in- law of the
deceased, mounted upon an old goods- box
before a store d. or, and addressed the
people for about fifteen minutes. He
said if the mass of the people felt as he
did, and would do their duty, which he
believed they would, that they would take
the black murderer out of jail and burn
him at the stake in the presence of all the
negroes that were there, to set an exam-
ple before them, and show them what will
be the result of all snch conduct if there
should ever be such again. Then he closed
by saying," All that feel as I do, will
follow me." He then leaped from the
stand and there was a general shout given
, and he led the way to the jail, and
nine tenths of the multitude following.
On arriving at the jail, they found the
Sheriff and Jailor, who did all they could
to suppress the mob, but all to no purpose.
They now mustered some 800 or 1000
strong. They then commenced with
sledge hammers, crowbars and axes, and
in an and
brought forward their victim,( the negro
murderer.) They marched him to the
centre of the jail yard, drove down a large
stake and chained him, in an erect position
, hand and feet fast to the stake.
There was an abundance of shavings and
fine split wood piled around him, this
consumed some half hour. During this
time the negro talked to the negroes that
gathered round him. He told them that
he had a good master, and that he was al-
treated too well and him too
ways gave
liberties and for them to take warn-
many
done
,
ing in time, and never do as he had.
Then the torch was applied, and he seemed
to be entirely indifferent about it until
the flames began to burn as high as his
knees. Then he began to twist and snort
and groan, and in about a minute more he
commenced to scream. He gave some of
the most hideous screame that I ever
heard come from any human being.
I could not stand to see any more and I
left. When I left, the flames were burning
as high as his head. I was only a
spectator, took no hand either for or
against. I think there were some 1500
to 2000 people to witness this dreadful
scene, 200 or 300 negroes.
THE DIFFICULTY BETWEEN FITCH AND
DOUGLAS- No Fight.- Washington was
of
pending hostilities between Fitch and
Douglas. All, however, was but idle
talk Notes passed it is true between
.,,
them, with a view to explanations and
retractions or a hostile meeting, but the
whole matter is in the hands of mutual
friends, and in a fair way of amicable
justment. ad
