FOR ELMER DAVIS AND PALS
Down in Washington the propaganda boys and
the morale experts who are working overtime on
the problem of keeping the American public properly
informed on the conduct of the war should look up
from their desks long enough to listen to the people.
Everyone is very much concerned, and rightly 80,
over the morale of the American Negro, and many
earnest souls want to do something to offset the
odor of the Mississippi lynchings, job discrimina-
tions and the public humiliations which beset us.
Elmer Davis, the head of the Office of War Information
, we believe, is among those earnest souls.
We have therefore a suggestion. Every week
or so, we find an item buried in a corner of the back
page of some metropolitan daily which tells of the
exploits of some courageous Negro who did or is
doing a heroic job in our fighting forces. The account
of the Negro's brave deed is always very brief, often
vague, and somehow the reporters seem to have a
hell of a lot of trouble finding out the Negro's full
name. A few weeks ago a Negro named" Frenchy"
saved the lives of his fellows in the middle of the
sea and only this week could they get his full name.
The incident got scant mention over the radio and
in the press of the nation. Many more of these incidents
doubtless never get in print.
Since our daily newspapers will headline the
fact that our forces shot down one or two planes
somewhere, it certainly seems reasonable that acts
of heroism on the part of Negroes should be given
proper display. Elmer Davis and his office can do
much to help this situation by making full use of
all exploits by Negroes which will not only help
build morale among Negroes but it will serve to
educate the white American public regarding the
real contribution of our people to this war. It is
time to stop" playing down the Negro," but rather
to" play him up" as he really is and thereby encourage
the masses of our people who are genuinely aggrieved
over the anti- Negro traditions and practices in this
country.
The Negro people know that this is their war
and they are fighting those very forces in this country
who are desperately trying to make it a" white
man's war." We are tired of looking at pictures
of stuffed shirts, society dames, glamour gals, etc.,
who are" sacrificing" for the war effort while hundreds
of humble Negroes who have been catching
hell since birth are risking their lives heroically
without the benefit of official encouragement or
grateful recognition. The propaganda boys in
Washington should call in these great American
publishers and tell them what this war is all about.
At any rate, certainly can make the detailed
information of they black heroes available to all America.
