Their salutatory- the political features
of which it is only our business to allude
to- would have conformed as well to the
exigencies of twelve months ago, as to
the present time.- Democrat.
Our neighbor of the Democrat seems
to be much troubled about our position,
fearing that it does not meet the exigen
cies of the present time. But his real
intention is to draw us off into a discus
sion of side, and immaterial issues, to
the neglect of the great issue of the day,
hoping
inder cover cover of the smoke
thus raised to escape the odium attach
ing to the position and the doings of the
Administration party. But we do not
intend to accommodate him.
JOHN
The great, the leading, and all absorb
ing question of the day, in our estimation
, is the extension of slavery, the
agression and outrages of the slave pow
er, under the patronage and encourage
ment of the Administration. Within the
last year, this question has( thanks to the
fostering culture of the Administration.)
grown and spread, until it has been made
to overshadow and swallow all others.
up
It has broken down old party lines,
north and south, and has really consolidated
( all other parties into two, the
great party of slavery, and the party of
freedom. On the one side is arranged
the South, headed by the Administration
and a few Northern flunkies; on
the other, the great body of Northern
freemen. Within the last year, we have
seen the Missouri Compromise line stricken
down by the hand of power, and the
territories of Kansas and Nebraska
open
ed to the inroads of slavery, in defiance
of solemn compact. Twice has the territory
of Kansas been invaded by an
armed mob from Missouri, and the elec
sien carried in favor of slavery, in defiance
of law, by the aid of bowie- knives
and revolvers, and freemen and legal voters
driven from the polls. We have
seen a free press thrown into the river
and destroyed by a lawless mob; its editors
, threatened with lynch- law if there
after found in Kansas, and Methodist
clergymen included in the same threat.
-We see Fillibuster Expeditions encour
saged, and the energies of the Administration
bent on the acquisition of Cuba,
in order to strengthen the arm of slave
ry, and yet, with all these facts before
us, it is said that our position does not
meet the exigencies of the times, because
four efforts are mainly directed to resist
these evils. We are asked to leave these
questions, and discuss Know Notbingiem,
and old party platforms, in order that
slavery may quietly accomplish its ends,
and the pro- slavery party escape the odi
um necessarily attending its acts. This
course we shall not pursue. We shall
laber to have the restriction of slavery
again applied to those territories, and if
that is not done, we will resist to the ut
R
most of our ability, the admission of any
slave state, formed out of those territories
. We shall welcome the assistance
of any and all organizations, and combinations
, to carry out these objects. If
Know Nothing ism pursues this course,
it has our approval, to that extent. If
it aids slavery, then it has not. We
cannot say what its course will be. We
wait for time to show. We shall keep
our eyes steadily on the point at which
we are aiming, and march forward in
the straight path until we reach the goal.
,
Now let us for a moment, see how
-org
se our neighbor meets the exigencies of the
to present time. The recent outrages in
be Kansas are known and read of all men,
onercept the readers of the Trumlull Democrat
. They learn nothing about them
from that sheet." Squatter Sovereign
ty"( the alleged doctrine of the Nibras
ka bill,) is violated in Kansas by a mob
of slaveholders, yet no voice of condemn
ation is heard from the Democrat. The
freedom of the press is stricken down by
slavery- the Democrat silently acquies
es, and by its silence approves. Lynch
law is proclaimed in order to establish
slavery in Kansas- the Democrat does
net not object. The elective franchise is in
Ja vaded, and elections are carried by force
of arms- the Democrat raises no warn
ing voice. A mob of slaveholders as
e sembles, and proclaims that the Govern
or appointed by the President under the
Constitution, is deposed- the Democrat
meekly submits. Revolution and civil
insurrections are established and inaugurated
in Kansas- the Democrat by its
silence says amen to it. Not a word is
i contained in that sheet, that will convey
to its readers the faintest idea of the condition
of things in Kansas. It fears to
and lay these facts before its readers, know
Ing that it could not keep them in the
straces, and make them follow the lead
of Pierce, Douglass, Achison and com
smpany, if fully advised on these subjects
This blissful state of ignorance it deems
better for party purposes, than knowledge
of facts. svorberg
abog The following paragraph shows the
way in which a stray Free Soil man,
-diwho has, by chance, found his way inte
the new Kansas Legislature, is spoken
of by the organ of the slave- drivers, at
the town of Atchison, in that Territory.
- g
Gov. Reeder has given that contemptible
puppy, Mr. F. Conway, a cer
fificate of election as councilman of Paw
anee District, when it is well known that
Mr. Donaldson received a majority of at
least two hundred and fifty votes. We
93991
can't stand that, certainly. D- d if we
do! If the Legislature don't reconsider
the action and give Mr.
Donaldson alseat, the squatter sovereigns
qong will take the matter in hand."
ad
THE Pacific sailed from New York for
Liverpool on the 24 inst., taking out$ 1,
d319, 00 in specie. Mr. Dodge, the new
galwoMinister to Spain, went out at that time.
109668
STATE FAIR AT COLUMBUS .-- The State
Fair of Ohio, for 1855, is to be held at
Columbus, on the 18th, 19th, 20th,
21st of September next and
