that you may correct it by the publication
of
Respectfully,
J. B. CHAPMAN.
Westport Mo. Decm. 3rd, 1854
COMMENTS
We give Mr. Chapman the full benefit
of his own explanatiou of his position, and
what does it amount to, after all. Why
that he came here and found Manypenny
unpopular, and therefore we suppose, he
thought it would be popular to abuse him.
For we here reassert, Mr. Chapman not
only censured Mr. Manypenny but that he
,
spoke of Mr. McClelland in no very complimentary
terms. It is useless for him to
say now his remarks were made upon what
he heard in Leavenworth. It he means to
insinuate he heard at this office that Col.
Manypenny was in danger of" Lynch Law,"
we have only to say he got no such information
from us, nor from any one as we
believe in any way connected with this office.
Besides we never heard of it, untill we saw
in the above very remarkable letter. If
he had been told as he now says he was,
that" Col. Manypenny done the best he
possibly could do in making that Treaty,"
why did he not tell the people of it here in
his speech.?
We have yet to learn that the people of
Leavenworth have any quarrel with Col.
Manypenny, and if so they certainly would
not have applied to Mr. Chapman to take it
off their hands.
We may have been in error in stating
that Mr. Chapman connected the adminis.
tration with the acts of the agents he so bitterly
complained of, but certain it is he commented
severely on the course of Manypen
, McClelland and some of the Indian a
gents, as we reported in our synopsis of
his speech.
We could have had no object in doing
Mr. Chapman injustice, for certainly no
man ever considered he was in the way of
any person. If, as he says, he knew we
were unfriendly to his election, certainly
we could not have posted him about what
he refers to in his letter, and if he has been
misinformed, and thereby led to do injustice
officers of the Government connected
with the administration, it is his fault not
ours. It will at least learn him, to keep bet
posted up in the future.
ter Parkville Luminary
