LYNCH LAW IN CALIFORNIA.
The Alta Californian of the 12th August gives the
following particulars of a tragical occurrence which
took place in the gold mines of California, about the
first of that the inexorable
month. It an appeal to
code of Judge Lynch, be excusable under any circumstances
, it is in cases like the one recorded below.
" Last Sunday, James Graham, aged about 30, from
Baltimore, and Alexander Leslie, from North Carolineral
na, aged about. 45, left on the North
Fork on a
dition, and when near Unioniown, in the vicinity of
Keisey's digging, Graham, who was in the rear, discharged
his gun so near Leslie's head as to singe the
hair, and to the latter inquiring why he had done so,
replied he fired at a squirrel
" Next day the same parties went out prospecting,
with the intention of passing through Greenwood
Valley, when Graham, under pretence of knowing
some new diggings, induced his companion to leave
the road and to proceed to a sequestered ravine, about
a mile off. After a search for gold, they concluded
to leave, and while Leslie stooped to adjust his pack,
Graham discharged the contents of his gun into the
back part of his head. Two large buckskot came out
at his month, and two lodged in the skull. ile was
also shot in the body. Graham, supposing his victim
dead, robbed him of three purses containing$ 600,
and left.
" Leslie having recovered sufficiently, proceeded
to Greenwood Valley, a distance of a mile and a half,
and communicated the circumstances to the people, a
body of whom started in pursuit of Graham, and he
was arrested by two of them at Uniontown, on his
way to Sacramento. When accused of murdering
Leslie, he denied all knowledge of it; but when, on
returning to Greenwood Valley, he was surprised
declared
acidently, and thought, as he was dead, his right to the
money was as good as anybody's. The citizens em
panneled a jury forthwith to try him, and after sitting
till night without agreeing, the case was adjourned
to next day.
" In the morning several persons took Graham to
find the place where the affair occurred. He tried to
mislead them, but by Leslie's direction they de cos
ered taken the on spot oath., After and another revera jury y empanneled, which,
after consulting ten minutes, gave a verdict of guilty,
and two
When the hour arrived, the culprit was brought forth,
and asked if he had anything to say. He saifull la
speak. A glass
was given him, which he swallowed at once. He
then declared, with an oath, that he intended killing
and a few other
placed upon a box in a wagon, a rope was adjusted
around his neck, and with scarcely a struggle the
condemned wretch swung into eternity. We learn
that after he verdict was rendered, he wrote to some
friends that he had$ 1200 deposited in San Francisco.
Leslie is not expected to recover."
SID Sery
