Correspondence of the Public Ledger.
Things in New York.
NEW YORK, June 3, 1851.- What, with" news
from Europe,"" awful earthquake at Valpa
raiso,,"'" murders,"" lynch law," and" general
disorder" at the diggins, this enlightened commu
advices"
of'
surfeit
"
steamers
has had quite a
nity
since I wrote you last !, The yell of" Extry
Eralds,"" Extry Suns,"" Extry Expresses,
which was set up just after the Washington arrived
last night, is still echoed in the streets, the venue
only California being. changed The large this quantity afternoon of, gold from brought Europe by to
the Empire City makes Wall street smile, while
in other streets may be seen lots of returned Californians
, strutting along with" pockets full of
rocks."
The parties implicated in the alleged Cuba expedition
made their appearance before Judge Betts,
in the U.S. District Court, this morning. Mr.
O'Sullivan pleaded his own cause as well as any
practised lawyer could do; but a motion he made
to have the trial of the cases removed to the Circuit
Court was not allowed. Beyond arguments
on this point no further proceedings were had.
The accused are to appear again to plead on Tuesday
next.
Another brutal murder was committed last night
on board the Swedish ship Thetis, lying at pier 54
East River. The murderer was the 2d mate of the
and 1st
mate. The former, in the absence of the captain,
wanted to throw up his situation, but the latter
said he should not leave the vessel till her commander
came on board This led to an altercation
.,
which resulted in the second mate's splitting Theo
bald's head open with a carpenter's axe. The
murderer has not been arrested.
The private secretary of Jenny Lind, M. Hjorst
berg, comes out, in the afternoon newspapers, with
a card, stating that Mr. Barnum had no authority
published in morning
papers, namely, that she would give no more than
a hundred concerts in America. The letter of
M'lles' secretary is quite crispy, and as such cre-
the a
windfall it will be, too, for those who have been
trying hard to create differences between the great
cantatrice and the great manager. The inference
deducible from Jenny's letter is, that when her engagement
with Barnum is at an end, she means to
give concerts" on her own hook" here.
Maretzek's opera troupe begins a short summer
season at Astor Place this evening, and begins
with a disappointment, too, I may add. The Lucia
has all along been announced for opening night,
but this morning, in consequence of an accident to
Signor Beneventano, and the continued illness of
Signor Bettini, Lucrezia Borgia is substituted.
What's the matter?
Petitions are circulating in Brooklyn, to be presented
to Congress at its next session, praying that
that be made a port of entry A series of
city may.
meetings to enforce the object in view are also to
be held.
You may form some idea of the quantity of" fire
water" consumed in this city, from the fact that
during the month of May past, Mayor Kingsland
granted no fewer than 2503 licenses to tavern keep
ers. And all these came but from seven out of the
nineteen wards of the city.
The number of prisoners incarcerated in the
Egyptian Tombs during the month of May was
1763, showing the enormous daily average of 57.
Total number sent to the Penitentiary during the
same time, 340; to the State Prison 10; at present
in the Tombs, 248.
Three persons were seriously injured in the
Eighth Avenue, last evening, by a mad bull that
got loose there. Two of them, ladies, not expected
recover. Every day incidents, now getting to be
to here,
