DELAWARE REPUBLICAN.
Wilmington, Delaware.
THURSDAY, JULY 24, 1856.
eat American Nominees.
FOR PRESIDENT,
MILLARD FILLMORE.
FOR VICE PRESIDENT.
strict
ANDREW JACKSON DONELSON,
OP TENNRANKE.
The circulation of the Republican"
ES GREATER THAN ANY OTHER PAPER IN
THE STATE,
and continually inereasing. Advertisers
should bear this in mind.
The REPUBLICAN is printed on one of
TAYLOR'S IMPROVED FAST STEAM POWER
PRESSES,
Which is competent to print almost any
number of paners
QUERY- How, or why is it, that certain persons,
now of odious notoriety, persevere in the sale of
intoxicating liquors, contrary to law? Do not these
individuals make some claim to character and re
spoctibility, and wish to stand fairly in the cons
dence and esteem of their fellow citizens around
them? It can hardly be possible that men of youth
and activity, on the threshold of life's prospects,
have become totally indifferent and reoklessly defiant
of public opinion Cau it be, that such persons
have obstinately and incorrigibl. set themselves to
prosecute an illegal business against good manners,
good citizenship and good conscience? A business
in all its motives, causes and sults, so palpably
destructive of every physical, social and moral interest
and hope of society.- a business so undeniably
abhorrent to every sentiment of philanthropy, patriotism
and religion Many of their best friends
have objected and urged submission to the author-
ity of law; and the whole mass of society, even of
those favorable to the repeal of the law, say," while
it is the law, it ought to be obeyed and enforced."
The violation of law is very wrong.- dangerous,
bad oxample and precedent, -it perils order and
safety, encourages the mob, -- threatens to lynch
even the officer of Justice, -and still they continue
in its breach. Patriotio, order- loving. Iaw- abiding
citizen, how, or why is it? Have intoxicating liquors
been sold by the glass or quart so long, that
the sale must now be continued for ever? Would
you like that rule applied to lotteries. gaming- hous
es, race- courses, slavery,& o.,& o. Would you like
to perpetuate all the evils of the past, because they
have been rllowed and practiced in fermer times;
and we ask you if the whole caravan of groggeries,
big and little, high and low, is not worse in itself,
and more injurious in its effects, thin all the other
wrongs put t gether? You must answer yes.
But Liberty, bo sted liberty, abused liberty,
is pleaded. Who that is responsible daros publicly
claim or espouse the liberty to break the law, to de
fy the duly enacted rule of public protection and
safety. No one dares to do it." Liberty is the
right to do what the law allows.
These men have been arrested and" bound in bonds to
