CONFESSED HIS GUILT.
The negro persisted in declaring his innocence
until this afternoon, when he
made a full confession. The lynching
crowd numbered about 600 persons. They
placed" Monk" in a wagon, bound his
arms and legs, covered his eyes, tied a
rope around his neck and pulled the
wagon away. Then the crowd quietly
dispersed leaving the body hanging. Not
a loud noise was heard and not a shot
was fired. Most of the crowd were from
the town of Laurens. There were some
negroes present who seemed to be satisfied
with what was going on. The
crowd was thoroughly representative and
included many of the best citizens of
Laurens. The scene of the lynching is
less than a mile from the home of Senator
Irby, who is said to have been a spectator,
and to have addressed some remarks to
the crowd, urging them to be temperate
and orderly and not to fire into the body.
He said that the country was opposed to
lynch law and deplored the circumstances
that sometimes made it neces
for the protection of women and
sary children.
Carolinians Again Take the Law Into
Their Own Hands.
The Victim a Negro Brute Who At
tempted to Outrage a Girl on Her
Way Home from School- He Con
fessed His Guilt- Senator Irby Said
to Have Addressed the Lynchers.
Columbia, S. C., May 10.- The third
lynching in this state within less than
three weeks occurred four miles west of
the town of Laurens about 5 o'clock this
afternoon, when a colored rapist, having
confessed his crime, was strung to a
hickory limb. This is not far from the
home of United States Senator Irby.
Monday afternoon the two
young
daughters of Farmer James Wham, one
11 years old and the other younger, were
going home from school. As usual,
they left the main road and
a nearer path, leading through
took
a dense wood. Suddenly they were
rudely accosted by a negro, who used
rough language intimating foul intentions
. He seized the elder girl, but she
struggled so desperately and the two girls
screamed so loudly that the fiend ran
away without accomplishing his purpose.
Early this morning a search for the negro
began and remarks let drop by a negro
named Heyward, or" Monk" Barksdale,
showed that he was the man. He was
captured in his house.
A negro not
suspected was carried before the two
girls. They promptly said," That is not
the man." When" Monk" was brought
forward, while he was within twenty
yards of them, both girls cried:" That
him, that is him." is
A LYNCHING IN LAURENS.
