FLOODS playing streamers of fire.
IN CHINA. from
President George F. Baer of the MOB KEPT AT BAY. he suffered a week ago and St. Paul Union Stock Yards.
Philadelphia
which he is now
and
slowly recovering
Reading
,
; President Five Thousand Persons
LACKS
Lose
NEWS CONFIRMATION.
Their Attempt to Lynch an Indiana Negro Judge George H. Durand
St. Paul, Sept. 9.- Cattle- Choice
W. H. Truesdell of the of Flint will
Delaware, Lives in the West River.
Lackawanna and Western, and Presi Murderer Frustrated. remain the Democratic candidate for Rumored Admiral Killick Was Killed butcher steers, $6.00@7.00; choice
dent Thomas P. Fowler of the New Victoria, B. C., Sept. 10.- Japanese Terre Haute, Ind., Sept. 10. governor and head the party ticket in on the Crete- a- Pierrot. butcher cows and heifers, $4.00@6.00;
good to choice veals, $3.50@5.50.
papers contain telegrams stating that the fall election. This decision was
York had an, Ontario informal and conference Western. railway, 5,000 persons lost their lives by the Matthew Alexander, the negro mur arrived at during the day at a special Port au Prince, Hayti, Sept. 10. Hogs-$7.25@7.70. Sheep- Good to
overflowing of the river in derer of Thomas Burke, a railroad meeting of the Democratic state cen Rumors have been in circulation here choice, $3.50@3.75; lambs, $4.25@4.85.
After West
it was over President Fowler China. There was also heavy loss man of this city, last Sunday, was committee since morning that Admiral Killick,
said the situation had been gone over of the tral here. Stock Yards.
during Chicago Union
captured day
floods,
near the
Formosa by a doctor and two sailors were killed
thoroughly Mr. Fowler said in an there informal was no manner change. property followed and by a life tidal in wave. scene of the crime. FIRST TIME IN TWELVE YEARS. on board the Crete- a- Pierrot when she Chicago, Sept. 9.- Cattle- Good to
The A mob of 200 endeavored to lynch
Boxers the German gunbcat prime steers, $7.75@8.50; poor to me
are
sunk by
active was
in the in Sheng Tu,
attitude the
of negro,
the but
operators the
and officers
where Messrs. Bruce and Lewis, with drawn Panther, but the news lacks confirma dium, $4.00@5.70; stockers and feed
New
that nothing Hampshire
could end the strike
Contest in Demo
but American missionaries, were murder- revolvers, kept them $2.50@5.40; cows
at bay ers,
got
and
and tion. heifers,
the unconditional
surrender of the cratic Convention for Governor.
ed. The Boxers are not well armed, their prisoner on a train bound for A number of partisans of the revolu $1.50@5.75; Texas steers, $3.00@4.50.
striking miners.
Indianapolis. Concord, N. H., Sept. 10.- For the tionary leader, General Firmin, have Hogs- Mixed and butchers,$ 7.30@
Later in the day when but are causing a lot of trouble.
Governor first time in twelve years the New been imprisoned. 7.80; good to choice heavy,$ 7.65@
