100000000006 199099900
90600000969096090000000
9900000000
** We are not better than our fellows, Lord, we are but weak and Bend us Thine ear, O Lord! the path.
human
men When our devils
. do deviltry, curse Thou the doer and
Whither? North
is greed and South is blood; within, the
the deed: curse them as we curse them, do to them all and more In the pale, still morning we looked upon the deed. We stopped coward, and without, the liar. Whither? To death?
than ever they have done to innocence and weakness, to womanhood our ears and held our leaping hands, but they did they not wag their
Amen! Welcome dark sleep!
DE
and
home. heads and leer and cry with bloodyjaws: Cease from Crime! The word
Have mercy upon us, miserable sinners! was mockery, for thus they train a hundred crimes while we do cure one. Whither? To life? But not this life, dear God, not this. Let
Turn again our captivity, O Lord! the cup pass from us, tempt us not beyond our strength, for there is
And yet whose is the deeper guilt? Who made these devils? that clamoring and clawing within, to whose voice we would not listen,
Who nursed them in crime and fed them on injustice? Who ravished Behold this maimed and broken thing; dear God it was an humble yet shudder lest we must, and it is red, Ah! God! It is a red and
and debauched their mothers and their grandmothers? Who bought black man who toiled and sweat to save a bit from the pittance awfol shape.
and sold their crime, and waxed fat and rich on public iniquity? paid him. They told him: Work and Rise. He worked. Did this man
Selah!
Thou knowest, good God! sin? Nay, but some one told how some one said another did- one
whom he had never seen nor known. Yet for that man's crime this In yonder East trembles a star.
Is this Thy justice, O Father, that guile be easier than innocence, man lieth maimed and murdered, his wife naked to shame, his Vengeance is mine; I will repay, saith the Lord!
and the innocent crucified for the guilt of the untouched guilty? children, to poverty and evil.
Thy will, O Lord. be done
Justice, O Judge of men! Hear us, O heavenly Father!!
