PECULIAR VI W OF MOB LAW
In the house of representatves yesterday
, Mr. Spight of Mississippi dis
cussed the lynchings with which the
country, unhappily, has been so much
affected of recent years. One part o
his remarks may well cause astonish
ment, comments the Salt Lake Tribune
. We refer to that portion of his
speech in which he claimed that the
people of the south" do not wreak indiscriminate
vengeance upon the innocent
because they belong to the same
race as the criminal," his contention
being that mobs in the north do this.
He was speaking especially of the
mobbings of negroes, and his charge
in this regard upon the people of the
north was quite true. The blood lust
once aroused is not sated by the death
of the assumed criminal, but the mob
does turn against the negroes as a
race. This was plainly shown by the
riots at Springfield, Ohio, and it has
been the same at other places and
times.
But the south is not exempt
from precisely the same tendency.
In the riots at Danville Virginia, the
mob met a negro and strung him up
merely because he was a negro. It is
often the same; the negro is hunted
down merely because of the color of
his skin. The dispatches frequently
give instances of this, south as well as
north. Indeed, the most atrocious case
of the that has come under public
notice kind this year took place in Repre
sentative Spight's own state, and must
have been familiar to him when he was
drawing his unfavorable contrast be
tween the south and the north.
A negro, Louis Holbert, got into a
fight with a white man; they exchanged
shots, and the white man was killed
The negro fled. His wife fled with him:
she evidently did not share Mr
Spight's cheerful sentiment that southerners
do not visit indiscriminate vengeance
upon the innocent. The event
showed that her fears were right
though she had nothing whatever to
do with the quarrel. The fugitives were
overtaken and tied to trees; nameless.
them.
atrocities were inflicted upon
that exceeded even the ingenuity of
savages whose burnings of white captives
at the stake have served as pat
terns of merciless atrocity.
In this case the man had committed
no atrocious offense, from the southern
point of view; street fights in which
one man kills another being so fre ..
quent as not to be considered especially
out of the no
way. It was case
such as is usually pleaded in extenua
tion of the lynching of negroes in the
south. The woman was innocent of all
offense; she merely fled in terror with
husband.
her It was no doubt the horror awakened
by this awful case in his state that
caused Governor Vardaman to take
personal charge when next a negro
threatened. He went
lynching was
personally to the scene, rescued the
negro, conveyed him in his own ca
to the capital of the state, and the
accused will have a lawful trial.
Governor Vardaman deserves praise
for this, and for waking up to his duty
in view of the atrocious nature of the
forever
former lynching, which will
stand an indelible stain upon the good
name of the state. But in view of that
atrocity, and its so recent occurrence
that the papers of his state are not yet
done discussing it, how Representative
Spight can make the claim he did in
his speech, is one the things that
is past comprehension of.
