Syrup' DRY HOP
crossed the Ric Simon.
which will THE leading clearing houses of the act to" encourage American
have in the Veners
to be ship build
enforced on all were wrecked during Grande at
gale Ignacio R Chas. A.
a JohnM. Wever .......
Zapeta
Chickering..R
ressels with immigrants on board. United States reported exchanges of ten persons were drowned and ing," under which the City of Paris and City early Sunday. James S. Scherman..R George W. Ray.
.
of New York are admitted to American reg morning and attacked the Mexican James D. Belden ..... R Sereno E. Payne ...... R
$ 1,450,562,872, during the seven days
THE
THE death of Dr. Werner
Siemens barracks Charles W. Gillett ... R Wadsworth..R
, Jas. W.
istry. just over the border JUDGE J. B. HILL, of the Superior
, in John J. Vorhis
YEAST
MME. MODJESKA plays Chopin, speaks ended on the 9th, against$ 1,382, 996,386, the eminent .. R| Daniel N. Lockwood
electrician
D
, occurred
.
half a dozen different languages and the previous seven days. As compared Berlin, aged 75 years. in tinues The, aggressive and this volicy country of foreign whether nations it will con or the republic of Mexico. The Mexi- Charles Daniels RWarren D. Hooker ... R Court, Walker county, Georgia,
NORTH
can troopers came out to meet the CAROLINA
thinks enough of German Syrup to
.
reads the best literature in them all. with the corresponding week of 1891 not, will soon be forced into a position where
CHILASI tribesmen attacked a Cash William A. B. BranchD F. A Woodard.
QUICK
...... D
Albani cultivates the domestic arts and the increase was 18.3. it cannot disregard measures which form a revolutionists, and at the first fire Benjamin F. Grady..D Benjamin H. Bunn ... D send us voluntarily a strong letter
mere guard near Chitral, India, and
5 CT
standing menace to its prosperity and security. several were killed and the soldiers Thomas Settle ..
writes most entertaining THE business failures in the United Henderson ... William T. Crawford D endorsing it. When men of rank
letters D
. Patti fifty of the John S.
former were killed. On the isthmus our commerce is engaged in a The
were driven back. revolutionists
is proud of her needlework, especially States during the seven days ended on A GERMAN named Schumann desperate fight to maintain its foothold. In pushed William H. Bower ... D and education thus use and recom
on and captured the barracks
mur
NORTH
RISER
DAKOTA.
of her darning. Harriett Prescott the 9th numbered 297, against 269 the south Pacific repeated annexations and .Rmend an article
the dered Countess Vis Tonte and he Martin N. Johnson., what they say is
extending the power and in- with its guns and supplies. After
protectorates are
Spofford is fond of the womanly em- preceding week and 310 for the cor maid in the countess'' villa attention of the public.
OHIO
at Valeria the
.
fluence of the maritime states of the old stripping entirely Storer ....... R John A. Caldwell ..... R worth
place Bellamy
it the
ployment of knitting, and says of it: responding time last year. FOR
Italy. Robbery was the motive. world. Subsidized Layton DIt is above suspicion." I have used
lines of fast steamers are was burned and all of the sol. George W. Houck .... DF. C. ...
" You sit and think your own thoughts On the subject of restriction of immi completing the circle D. Donovan. ........ W. Sulick.
Lancashire D. DJ
IN England maritime
LIGHT
, of communi-
BREAD
R
, over 30,000 diers dispersed and the revolution. George W. Wilson .... R Luther M. Strong. your German Syrup," he says," for
and nothing hinders; eastern
infinitely
cation on
you are the and western coasts
gration a poll of both branches
of
of con cotton operators were said to be in ists then returned to their Byron F. DWilliam H. Enochs ... R my Coughs and Colds on the Throat
abode Charles H.Grosvenor
the Dominion of Canada and fortresses daily
lazy, and yet you are accomplishing. R Joseph
a gress shows that sixty- three senators starving condition. H. Outhwaite.D
strength on this side of the Rio Grande. The and Lungs. I can recommend
it
increasing in are surrounding our D.
rood deal." D. Hare .. for
and 156 representatives favor restric
coast upon the south and east. Under these invaders were under the direct leader. H. C. Van Vorhis ..... RA. J. Peterson. WATERLOO YEAST CO DETROIT MICK.
Dthem as a first- class medicine."
tion, while sixteen senators were LATER NEWS. circumstances it is imperative
the
A. D. Richards
non to welfare J. ...
of ship D George P. Ikirt ..
THE woman of America will be very committal. this country that the policy of naval recon of Entrigo Ramon, the right hand S A. Northway .. RWilliam J. White .... R Take no substitute.
A WILL containing 6,000 words and
much shocked man of Garza. Ramon was slightly Tom L. Johnson.
D
to hear of a little sign struction, successfully carried on in the ECLECTIC WHITE SOAP
disposing of$ 72,000,000 worth of prop OREGON
YOUR
.
Just after
the HEALTH
.
which occupies a place on the banks of THE EAST. past, should suffer no interruption in the wounded. fight the Binger Herman .......
RW. R. Ellis ...... R
erty was filed for probate in Surrogate future.
authorities rushed
Mexican out twc the Market.
the Yuen- Fule river IN Philadelphia Is the Best Soap in
in Foochow: the handsome PENNSYLVANIA
" Do build-.
Not Infants Here Ransom's court, New York city, the Much space is devoted to interesting details companies of cavalry from Nuevo Lare Alexander McDowell..R William Lilley.
."
RRRRD
Drown ing
Female of the
Public Ledger, owned by 12th, by Judge John F. ECLECTIC SOAP
The sign is read by 750,000 Foochow George W. Childs, was partially Dillon. It was as to the operations of ships in commission the do, south of here, but the barracks had Henry William H. Bingham .... KCharles O'Neill .. The citadel
gutted D John Reyburn.
of life
E.
that of the last year in Behring sea and elsewhere; must
Jay be
on
late Gould
the
. guarded
been burned and the revolutionists Alfred C. Harmer ...... R John B. Robinson R Is made from the Best and
Pur
....
ans, causing no blush and work of the
no comment, by fire, entailing a loss of about$ 225,000. marine hospital bureau in connec
Irvin P. Wanger
GEO. I. BAGLEY, the messenger RWilliam Mutchler
who at two points. In the first
place there
......
THE. The authorities
....
tion with cholera quarantine, etc. Interesting fled
Era
this side
says the Kingston Freeman. The kill number of men out obtainable.
on
of C. Vegetable Oils
employ J. D Mariott est
- B.
stole Rosius ....
$ 100,000 from the United statistics
States RWilliam
Hines
are
ment H.
given as to the growth J.
in .... is danger
of the gov-
the iron sent several companies north and A. Scanton the
ing of a girl baby in China and of taking cold
is a crime steel ... We take
business in Express company ernment toward establishing naval militia James B. Reilly .. Is Absolutely Pure, and is Sure
never, Nov. 18, was, the Uncle Sam's M.
D
punished. The birth of a fe Pittsburgh, Pa., is estimated at 10,000 tenced sen characterized men are now hurrying Myron B. Wright ..... R Albert C. Hopkins .... cold through
. creation of which is
to two one
and
as
the
of
one- half skin and
the
JAY years in the naval prog through the mesquite to head off the Wolverton .. D M. this affects to Please the most Fastidious
male throws the whole family GOULD'S will most important steps in our recent Mahon ..
into disposes
deepest grief of property penitentiary, the 12th, at Davenport, returning insurgents. A courier from Frank E.Beltzhoover. DJ. D. Hicks. the kidneys and the lungs. So inti or Particular Person.
ress
and the
.
, mother often valued at$ 100,000,000, all of which goes Ia. D. B. Heiner .......... R John Daizell
finds Bagley pleaded guilty. Judge The estimates in the report for the fiscal year west
can retrieve that the only way in which she to his six children except$ 25.000 to Waterman gave as his reason for impos ending June 30, 1894, for navy and marine corps, of here says that Garza can get William A. Stone ..... RW. A. Spe .. mately are these organs connected, Woolen Goods are left Soft and like New,
herself is to dispose of 8,000 men together at a call and that Thomas W. Phillips .. RJ. C.
the each Sitley ..
of his two
and Linen Goods White as Snow when
sisters and one brother. ing a light including
sentence
those for public works and increased ... that a cold affects both.
the prisoner's In order
pre
Charles W. Stone .... R George F. Kribbs. to
Diaz has ordered Mexican
infant Homestead troops
washed
AT
with ECLECTIC SOAP.
quietly and effectively, Pa., the navy, are
relief 824,471,498, being$ 2,713,141
. Why com- vious good character less than relieve the system
CAROLINJ
and both
SOUTH.
mittee his prompt those for the last, should be In using Eclectic Soap there
border.
fiscal massed at the
is caring for seventy year. is a
not try baby William H. Brawley.D| W. J. 3albert ...
farming five
D
?-
fami- action in restoring the stolen money. A. C. Lattimer whole system
rather the
W.
lies which McLaurin .... treated, or
are destitute as a result DJohn saving of Time,
of Relief Committee Issues an R. J. Strait .. Labor, Money,
THE list of A NEGRO woman of Edgefield county, FIRE RUINS A TOWN. Homestead
