JA
appoint a committee of three to investigate
the condition of state treasury
the past two years, and to report upon the
alleged illegal loaning of money to banks,
and also upon the failure of ex- Treasurer
Bartley to cash warrants when presented.
Uerling of Adams sent to the clerk's desk a
petition signed by 100 names protesting
against any appropriation over$ 100,000 for the
Transmississippi Exposition. The following
bills were ordered to the general file: For the
promotion of mutual insurance companies.
Relating to district boards, powers and duties.
Prohibiting the playing of foot ball in the
state of Nebraska and providing for the punishment
of violation of the law by a fine of
from$ 20 to$ 100 and imprisonment in the
county jail. Providing for the punishment
of body snatchers and the mutilation of
corpses. A communication from Robert W.
Furnas of the State Board of Agriculture, in
regard to the appropriation asked for by the
Doard, was read and referred to the committee
on finance, ways and means. New
bills were read as follows: To amend section
10, subdivision 13, of chapter 1xxix, of the
Compiled Statues of Nebraska of 1835, relating
to the State Normal school and to repeal
said section 10; to protect primary elections
and conventions of political rties and pun
ish offenses committed thereat.
HOUSE.- In the house on the 5th house roll
No. 23, providing that warehousemen, owning
their own warehouse, may issue receipts for
articles stored therein, which receipts shall
have the same force and effect as receipts is
sued by public warehouses was recommended.
Among other bills thus recommended are the
following: Relating to the drawing of petit
jurors. Relating to school lands. Relating
to final decrees of courts. Raising the age of
consent to 18 years. Bills on first reading:
To authorize county courts to require administrators
and administrators with will
annexed to pay and deliver to said courts
money and certain personal property remain
ing in their possession after the final settle
ment of their accounts. To prohibit the giv
ing to or acceptance of passes or free transportation
by members of the legislature, or
any salaried officer of the state, or any salaried
officer of any city or county of the
state, and providing penalties and disqualification
for violation thereof. For the encouragement
of the agricultural, commercial
and irrigation interests in the state of Nebraska
, and to make an appropriation there
for. To provide for a rehearing and reargu
ment of cases in the supreme court and regulating
proceedings therein. The house then
adjourned.
LYNCHERS UNDER FIRE.
The Ray County Grand Jury Making an
Investigation- Confession Ramors.
LIBERTY, Mo., Feb. 6.- There is considerable
excitement in the western
part of Ray county over the report
that a business man of Orrick has con
fessed that he was a member of the
mob that lynched Winner and Nelson.
A large number of witnesses have
been subpoenaed this weck to appear
before the grand jury. Judge E. J.
Broaddus, in his charge to the grand
jury when court convened at Richmond
, was very emphatic and denounced
the lynching in strong language
. He questioned each grand
juror as to his views on lynching.
WOMEN SUFFRAGE.
The House of Commons Passes a Franchise
Bill to Second Reading.
LONDON, Feb. 5.- In the House of
Commons yesterday afternoon the wo
men's parliamentary franchise bill
passed its second reading by a vote of
228 to 157. The debate was conducted
in a jocular spirit.
Santa Fe Defrauded.
PURCELL, Ind. Ter., Feb. 6.- Before
United States Commissioner J. B.
Thompson, A. S. Brown, night bill
clerk for the Santa Fe at this place;
J. M. Rearick, ex- station agent for the
same road at Newkirk, Okla., and D.
O. Wilson, grain dealer at Bolton,
Texas, were called to answer to a
charge of conspiracy to defraud the
Atchison railway and were allowed
bail in the sum of$ 1,500 in the first
case. There are thirty- seven similar
cases pending against them.
Tammany Revolters Organize,
NEW YORK, Feb. 6.- Henry D. Pur
roy and his supporters, who have organized
a revolt against Tammany
hall, began their work of organization
in the various assembly districts of
the city last night, when delegates
were selected to a Democratic county
general committee, which will meet
here next Wednesday, when the move
ment will be fully organized. The
general opinion of the district leaders
is that there will be a full representation
from all the districts.
Big Failure at Selma, Ala.
SELMA, Ala., Feb.6.- Maas& Schwarz,
cotton factors, and Maas& Co.,
wholesale grocers, have made assignments
as a result of the failure of the
Commercial bank, which has redis
counted large amounts of paper of both
firms with New York banks, who still
hold it. Efforts to effect an arrange
ment with the banks whereby the
firms could continue business proved
futile. The liabilities will probably
reach$ 300,000.
New Trial for Durrant Probable.
SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 6.- The Supreme
court of California has handed
down no decision on the appeal of
Theodore Durrant, found guilty of the
murder of Blanche Lamont twenty- one
months ago. It is understood that the
appeal has not yet been considered by
the supreme justices, but many attorneys
believe that the justices will
grant Durrant a new trial.
Treaty Action Unlikely.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 5.- The under
standing among Senators at present is
that the general arbitration treaty
will not come to a vote at this session
No one doubts that it
of Congress.
will be debated, but the opposition
makes no secret of its intention to
consume so much time in discussion
that a vote cannot be reached.
A Freight Steamer Long Overdue.
HALIFAX, N. S., Feb. 5.- The seal
ing steamer Nimrod is still in the ice
off the Newfoundland coast searching
for traces of the missing steamer State
of Georgia, now over a month overdue
from New Fairwater in the Baltic, to
Halifax, freight laden. She carried a
crew of thirty- one men, nearly all of
Aberdeen.
whom belonged in
McKinley's Private Secretary.
NEW YORK, Feb. 5 .-- It can be definitely
stated that J. Addison Porter of
the Hartford, Conn., Evening Post will
be private secretary to President McKinley
. A private telegram from Mr.
Porter to a friend in this city states
that Major McKinley has appointed
him to that position and that he has
accepted.
Love Found Guilty of Murder.
EMPORIA, Kan., Feb. 6.- Bob Love,
who shot one side of his father's head
off with a shotgun on Sunday, Decem
20, last, was declared guilty of
murder ber in the second degree.
