Particulars of the Lynching of Negroes
in Gibson County, Tenn.
Trenton, Tenn.( Aug. 26), Dispatch to the Memphis
Avalanche.
City- Marshal
Dungan and Constables W. W. Senter
and Spence Eldridge, with an escort of
forty men, well armed, brought sixteen
negroes from Picketsville, and lodged
them in the jail at this place for safe
keeping. The negroes are the ones
who had a preliminary examination be
fort Justices Jordan, Fly, and Hunt,
of Picketsville, yesterday afternoon.
were a of the which
fired on Monroe Morgan and James
Warren, two young white men, last
Saturday night, as they were going to
their homes, and when about three
miles from Picketsville. At a preliminary
examination two of the negroes
confessed to the fact that a general
uprising of the negroes, for the purpose
of killing all the whites, was intended.
This morning, between one and two
o'clock, about 100 disguised men, armed
with double- barreled shot guns, rifles
and revolvers, rode quietly into town
and surrounded the jail in which the
negroes mentioned were confined. The
sheriff and jailer, both of whom were on
duty, were called out and the keys of
the prisoners' cells demanded. To this
demand the officers refused to accede,
and declared their intention of holding
the negroes subject to the action of the
law.
The leaders of the masked men leveled
their weapons at the officers, and
said in emphatic tones," We have
come for those niggers, and intend getting
them; turn over the keys, or we
their
your brains out."
very action looked like business, there
was no more hesitation beyond a formal
protest, and the keys were turned over.
Going to the cells, the masked men
unlocked the doors, and with presented
and cocked weapons, ordered the negroes
out. The order was tremblingly
complied with, and the poor frightened
black wretches marched into the corridor
. There they were tied together with
strong pieces of rope in twos.
The disguised men marched the negroes
into the street. They were placed
the center of an irregular hollow
in square, and the line of march was taken
