ANOTHER attempt was made on the 28th
by a mob to lynch Turner and Patterson,
the negro assailants of Jennie Bowman, at
Louisville, Ky. Conflicts with the police
resulted, the mob being finally driven off.
ADVICES from Kodiak, Alaska, bearing
date of April 5, state that the sealing
schooner Flying Scud, sailing from that
port, was lost at sea with all on board. The
owner, H. Anderson, Captain Nels Hansen,
Vasila Grignoff and his son and fourteen
native hunters were lost.
THE western- bound Southern Pacific
press was stopped and robbed at Papago ex
station, eighteen miles east of Tucson,
Ariz., on the night of the 27th. The num
ber of men engaged in the robbery was
variously estimated at from five to eight.
Wells, Farge& Co. lost$ 5,000. The passengers
were not molested.
AT Stendal, fifteen miles from Hunting
burg, Ind., four boys were poisoned recent
ly by eating wild parsnip in mistake for
spinach. Three of the boys died a few
hours after eating, while the fourth was re
ported lingering in a hopeless condition.
A RESOLUTION censuring President Cleveland's
action in ordering troops to Dakota
to evict the settlers on the Crow and Win
nebago agencies was adopted by Local Assembly
No. 3,217, Knights of Labor, at Den
ver recently.
A TERRIFIC Wwind storm on the afternoon
of the 28th demolished four new frame
cottages in the town of Lake, near Chicago
, and under the debris two workmen
were crushed to death. The victims were
Judson Place and Charles Carroll.
DISPATCHES received in London on the
28th from Australia tell of a terrific
hurricane which swept over the southern
coast April 22, and states that forty boats
engaged in the pearl fishing industry,
having on board crews aggregating 550
men, were lost and not a soul saved.
A DISPATCH from Cooktown, Australia,
announces that the steamer Benton, of
Singapore, was sunk in a collision with a
bark off the island of Formosa and that 150
persons were drowned. No Europeans
were lost.
THE Cambridge( Eng.) University Boat
Club has appointed a committee to make
arrangements with the Harvard University
Boat Club for a race between the
Cambridge and Harvard crews in America,
THE State Sanitary Board of Colorado has
decided on more quarantine against Iowa,
against the Omaha stock- yards and against
the Kansas City stock- yards.
THE Michigan Central and Canadian Pacific
roads have made an arrangement regarding
interchange of business.
It is reported in the East that several of
the Western roads have issued passes since
the Commerce law went into effect.
THE wire nail manufactories of America
have formed a national association.
COMMISSIONER COLMAN has been notified
by his inspector at Golden Ridge, N. Y.,
that pleuro- pneumonia existed there among
a herd of cattle, from which some animals
had already been shipped.
BUSINESS failures during the week ended
April 28 numbered for the United States
164, and for Canada 27, total 191, against 199
the previous week and 207 the corresponding
of last year.
A SPECIAL from Montreal says:" Reports
from Medicine Hat say that the blood In-
dians are becoming bold and are firing upon
scouting parties of mounted police. A
strong detachment has been sent in pur-
suit. The Indians are killing right and left.
THE water in the Merrimac at Lowell,
Mass., was very high on the 29th, and rising
rapidly. The mills were all running,
but the backwater made it very difficult to
run them. A shut down was feared.
ANOTHER mob gathered in Louisville,
Ky., on the 29th, bent on lynching the assailants
of Jennie Bowman. After an ex
citing time and the calling out of the military
quiet was restored.
A COLOSSAL system of rcobery by means
of prepared packs of cards has been discovered
at the Casino at Monte Carlo. The
proprietors of the tables lost £ 16,000.
SHARP SMITH and his older children were
recently working in their field near Columbia
, S. C., and left three childen in the
house, not far distant. The building caught
fire and the children were burned to death.
The mother was killed in a tornado which
passed over that section two years ago.
THE Indian Commission has concluded a
treaty for the division of the lands of the
Flathead Indians in Montana into farms.
JUDGE VAN BRUNT, of the New York City
Court of Oyer and Terminer, has denied
the motion to quash the indictment against
Jacob Sharp.
FOSTER'S Opera House at Des Moines,
lowa, burned the other day Loss$ 35,000;
.,
| insurance,$ 25,000.
A RECENT dispatch from Savannah, Ga.,
says Captain Patrick Doyle and eighteen
men, part of the crew of the British steamer
Ben Hope, were picked up in Tyler Roads
by a pilot boat and brought to this city.
Their vessel, which was bound from New
York to Vera Cruz, was burned and the
crew had to take to the boats. The
cost$ 150,000; value of cargo not stated vessel.
