If the stomach is foul or bilious it will
HERMAN BARTHOLD, a farmer near
A DESPERATE fight occurred in the
for the companies' own ends. A map all entrances. The doors were barri- to her station, broke away from the less body of young Waldschmidt with work at the Chicago shops.
cause squeamish feelings at first.
of the United States made up of rail- Toledo, O., lost his house by fire and jail at Tahlequah, I. T., the 22d, be caded from within and furniture piled tugboat when near New Haven and a wound in his forehead that must No change of diet ever necessary. Eat
tween Eli Levy, Chule Starr and Bob Sald to Have Choked Her Father.
way maps pieced together that would would be his burned two to daughters death., aged 12 and 7, were Dalton, against them. The soldiers stood with was driven shoreward. towline A boat, but was a have killed him instantly. Knieburg CHICAGO, Oct. 23.- David Higgins, 65 the best you can get, and enough of it.
quilt all of whom were replace the
crazy under lowered to
sen and
geographical cocked and bayonets fixed was taken into custody and confessed water at bed
a caricature of this AT Gallup, N. M., an old Navajo In- tence of death. Levy got possession of pieces sea capsized it and four of its to the police that he had shot his com- years old, living with his daughter Dose, one tablespoonful in
grotesque would yield. heavy Druggists
present a the doors.
waited till The light panion accidentally. He was shooting and her husband at No. 178 San- time. Sold by all
dian who married
squaw a drowned.-
were
represent it as a a young razor and made an assault on the occupants
great country and wishes of her parents shot other two prisoners, cutting Starr fa Huge stones were thrown against the street found dead
no fitting place could against the
,
tract for which was bird just as Waldschmidt raised gamon
was
STOVE
deafening. ship made leeway rapidly and at a
ING
doors and the noise was
killed him- tally, when he was knocked senseless on the lounge. Richard Stapleton
be found on the face of the globe. At and killed her and then soon driven ashore. from a bunch of marsh grass. They
All the time loud and angry yells came
by Dalton, who used up, and no doubt said his wife and her father quarreled
in the joint to take this case off my docket, and it will stay sible for its existence."
Chilly
Sterrett( rep Tennessee
Nights
of public funds amounting to$ 2,000. ended on the 19th, against 231 the week F. M..)., Struck Down by a Soldier. political debate
Wednesday afternoon there. If there is any monkeying about it
WASHINGTON, Oct. 19.- Maj. Gen.
At last Alaska civilization is on the high. road to previous and 341 in the correspond Tenth THE district Sons of. R. the J. American Rawlings Revolu-( pop.). hardly The emerged sheriff and from his the deputies had between Congressman W. J. Bryan tempt some one, and is I going think to I am be cited pretty to good appear for con- Howard goes on the retired list No- Of Fall present so many variations of
ing. jail door authority
wards modern time in 1898 and John tem
tion presented a stand M. Thurston, candidates re on contempt." vember 8. He entered the military perature as to tax the strength
THE postmaster general issued an of colors to the when the acknowledged leader of the spectively of the democratic and re and make
THE West Point military academy order that hereafter an address label Fifteenth regiment, U. S. A., at Fort crowd, Henry Kirk, who married Mrs. publican parties for the United States Tuesday afternoon Judges Hope- service as a cadet in 1850. This fact a pathway for disease. Hood's Sarsapa
well, Ambrose, Blair, Keyser and Fer- lends interest to his annual report, rilla will fortify the system against these
is making strenuous efforts to do may be pasted on the address side of Sheridan, in recognition of its gallant Boyd's sister, rushed toward
the senate. The seating capacity of the
guson ascended to the bench for the from which the following is extracted: dangers, by making pure, healthy blood.
away with hazing.
Cadet Corporal an envelop as well as the message side conduct during the late strike in Chi- trembling wretch, protected by the Merchants' pavilion at the state fair
Hood's
to deter Gen. Howard's report that
William purpose in banc shows his forces,
S. Valentine, of the third of a postal card. cago sworn officers of the law, and breaking of sitting
grounds
.
, estimated at 7,000, was taxed, consisting of 413 officers and 4.935 men, were. Sarsa
mine if the Bennett should
class, was recently sentenced to dis GOVERNMENT IN Chicago an omnibus indictment the stalwart and
case
officials will endeavor thin ranks of the the partisans
of the two speakers distributed among 26 garrisoned and 38 not
, be
removed from Judge Scott's
missal for harassing new cadets by re to keep out seventy anarchists reported was found by the federal grand jury guard seized the culprit with a hand supposed to be equal in numbers, garrisoned Affairs in parilla
posts. the department
docket. have been very peaceful except for the inter
quiring them to execute the leg exer to be on their way to the United States. against the officers of the American of iron. Quick as a flash the musket were warm in their plaudits of the
Cures
" Sores came out on
cise in their receipts during twenty Railway union and all strikers charged of a soldier The judges ordered the clerk to pro ruption of the Chicago strike. His apprehen
tents in the evening. TREASURY
was swung with great good points made. They discussed the sions of the troubles extending to the larger my limbs. I tried
with violence and obstructing the duce the papers in the case at 9 a. m.
lays of the amounted force and Mr. Kirk dealt blow different
present month was a income tax government foreclosure of eastern cities at that time were medicines,
Wendell
,
SINCE the death of Ol ver mails. to day and cited Mr. Rosewater to be
in the face. The realized but
angry but Gen. should
-
Howard
crowd liens
not
rushed helped
50$ 12,874,858 and the disbursements on Pacific railroads
and
says
the fre
none
, me
Holmes
,
there are only four surviving IN Chicago twenty- five present for trial. When Scott heard such difficulties arise again and simultaneous.
