of Le time for reports from the members of the Ex
.
DER ST LOUIS We learn from the St.
62d
IN-
..
hands ecutive Committee, the gentlemen composing
Louis Democrat of the 1st inst that a young one
.,
the the Committee called on in turn by the
were
Minnesota farmer, a German, named Robert
cold President. The reports showed in general, will
Laumer, was on Saturday night arrested at/ of
such that the work had been vigorous-
tract pretty
Rheinbold's house Second near
boarding on
,
the y prosecuted during the past three months.
Plum the charge of murder
,
street upon grave
also a German, except the month of October, the latter part
,
people, His accuser is Wm. Grosser,
we
blood and brother of the murdered man, Frederick of which was so wet and unfavorable as to
from
visitors fully can-
such prevent many of the
lived in Minnesota and
Grosser. The parties
tracts
,
thirty miles from St. Paul, where, in a quar- vassing their districts. Over 2,000
were distributed throughout the city during
Sueur of the
payment debt
rel on
respecting the a
,
the quarter some half dozen Bibles were
pronounced;
27th of fast March Laumer levelled gun
were found
a
the destitute; others
.
- On and slayer shot then Frederick ran, and through the wounded the breast man. chas The and supplied without a considerable Bibles to, and number desirous of of children having them were; not
sixty yards when he fell and
tracts
him
The
ed
Schools
some
Sabbath.
,
com gathered into
shortly expired. His brother, who was pre-
to La were generally well received, though in some
Department with less sent,, and continued then returned the chase to till the it became corpse. hope The- instances they were It refused seemed,, in however not, the, to most be
deceased was aged thirty- one years, and had kindly manner.
the uniform experience of the visitors, that
mat- no family. Laumer is aged about twenty
more practical opposition was met in the
forty- seven, and has a wife and child.
was down the river, and the work of distributing tracts among the richer
The fugitive went
road, surviving brother pursued him, arriving at St. and better informed classes in our city, than
hereto- Louis several months ago. His efforts ab among those in lower life. The chilling in-
business sorbed his money and provedį futile, so that difference of the former in many cases, tries
their three weeks since he sought and obtained the faith and sincerity of the tract distributor
more than the open opposition of others, from
than work as a hostler at the omnibus stables on
On Fri- whom less sympathy might be reasonably
Seventh street, near Flora Garden.
designed in
expected Though the tracts are
made.
day a person who knew Laumer saw him on
,,
the to the
general preach gospel" it
to" poor Dr.
Pas-,
Second and at informed Grosser
street once
.
house in
,
lat- is not thought best to pass by any
who then placed the police on the murderer's
track, with the result above stated. Grosser the city, whatever be the position of their JOHN
! -A is prisoner poor, but and the sen necessary steps place to where retain the the occupants messenger, as as the such tract a kindly, should, unobtrusive certainly offend little JOHN
him the
! -crime was committed, will of course not be no one. If it cannot instruct, perhaps it can
at least bring to the mind in a salutary man
from retarded on that account.
horri What a record of crime our papers nowner, that which we do know, but are in dan-
day present. Murder on murder! We do not ger of forgetting, amid the cares of life.
Numerous little incidents full of interest
wonder that in thinly settled counties where
forgot- laws are hardly enforced, Lynch law should be and encouragement were related at the meet
had resorted to to punish this most terrible of al ing, showing that the tract work is meeting a of
want in our city that must long have been have
sum crimes.
felt by every Christian heart- the want of it
was
OUTRAGEOUS CONDUCT OF A POLICEMAN. proper sympathy with the poorer and less in or
wretches,
him, Yesterday morning a Norwegian married lady structed classes of our community, and of
beyond appeared before the Police Court, and swore some adequate medium through which to ap bear
out a warrant against a Policeman named proach them and show them that they are
un
Charles A. Moore, recently appointed, on a not forgotten or uncared for by those who
more
Le charge of attempting an outrage on her per are more comfortably situated in life. The our
in stated, are these: She tracts afford a medium by which to express
