LET JUSTICE BE DONE.
The lynching of the man and womau
on the Sweetwater may be deplorable.
All resorts to lynch law are deplorable in
a country governed by laws, but when the
law shows itself powerless and inactive,
when justice is lame and halting, when
there is failure to convict on down- right
proofs, it is not in the nature of enterprising
western men to sit idly by and
have their cattle stolen and slaughtered
under their very noses.
It is easy for an editor sitting in the security
of his sanctum in Denver or Salt
Lake to work himself into a condition of
maudlin sentimentality over this particular
lynching but we have noticed that
these same editors never submit very
gracefully to any imposition practiced up
on themselves.
THE LEADER believes in upholding the
right, whether it is on the side of the
corporation or the individual. While
there is no doubt that the Stock Growers"
Association once carried things with a
high hand in Wyoming, as a Rawlins cor
respondent suggests, this is no justification
for the private individuals now to
plunder companies that have never done
them any harm.
THE LEADER has heretofore shown
that the cattle companies contribute enormously
to the taxable wealth in all the
counties of the territory. They pay taxes
to a county government for protection and
their property should be held as sacred as
the property of any private individual.
There is no doubt that on the Sweetwater
and elsewhere there are men who make a
business of stealing cattle. It is an open
secret as to who they are in several locali
ties. Assassination of men who are op
posed to these rustling practices has been
attempted and very many men have been
intimidated through threats that their
lives would be taken.
Dishonestly whether practised by corporations
or individuals, should not be
upheld or even countenanced in any
county of Wyoming territory. A calf or
yearling stolen from a corporation is no
less a crime than though it were stolen
from an individual. This fact seems to
have been lost sight of by jurors who
have failed to convict on evidence as plain
as day. Lawlessness of any sort is not
creditable to a territory which aspires to
admission into the Union as a state and
the sooner it is suppressed by the strong
arm of the law the better it will be for
all concerned.
Lynch law is rarely justifiable though
we have known cases where it was. The
trouble with it is that like justice it is
blind and gives sway to the mad passions
of men which it is always better to keep
within bounds.
Every business in the territory should
receive proper protection from the constituted
authorities, whether it is cattle
business or the grocery business. the
