JAILED FOR SELLING
COPIES OF THE CRISIS'
IN MISSISSIPPI TOWN
( Special to the Tribune)
NEW YORK, N. Y., April 28.
The National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People, 70
Fifth avenue, New York, made public
today copies of telegrams passing between
the association and the Gover-
nor and Acting Governor of Mississippi
, in which the association asked
legal protection for a lawyer to ap
peal the ease of the Rev. E. R. Frank
lin, of Jackson, Miss., a colored min-
ister, who was fined$ 400 and sentenced
to five months on the county
farm at Tchula, Miss., for selling the
Crisis, the official organ of the association
, and whose lawyer, employed
by colored people of Jackson, Miss.,
the association says, was intimidated
by a mob which threatened to lynch
him if he attempted to defend the colored
minister. The association declares
that a local justice of the peace
refused the tender of a bond to cover
the cost of appeal, declaring that
Franklin would be lynched if released
and that his only assurance of protection
was for him to work out his sentence
. The reply of the Acting Governor
to the association's request for
legal protection was a declaration that
" if the editors of this sheet( The
Crisis) would visit Mississippi, we
would make an example of them that
would be a lasting benefit to the colored
people of the South and would
not soon be forgotten." The association
in its statement says that it is
uncertain from the Acting Governor's
telegram whether the" example" to
which he refers means a threatened
lynching or a court sentence of un
usual severity. In either case, says
the statement, the association wants
to know whether the right of appeal
to a higher court is to be denied in
Mississippi by mob intimidation and
sustained by the Governor's office,
and whether the Negro in Mississippi
has any rights which white men are
bound to respect. The association repeated
its request for legal protection
.
The telegrams follow:
April 20, 1920.
Hon. Lee M. Russell, Governor,
Jackson, Miss .:
We are advised that lawyers employed
by colored people went to
Tchula, Miss., April 15, to provide
bond for appealing case of Rev. E. R.
Franklin, Negro minister, sentenced
to six months and fined$ 400 for selling
Crisis, published ty National Association
for Advancement of Colored
People; that lawyer was intimidated
by mob of 200 men, who threatened
violence if he dared represent Franklin
; that justice of peace declined
bond although it had been propertly
certified by sheriff and was thereby
made valid under the law; that justice
told lawyer Franklin would be
lynched if released; that his only salvation
was to work out sentence on
county farm. Association appeals to
you for protection for lawyer to undertake
appeal and asks that you ad
vise us whether you will guarantee
protection to lawyer to appeal case
to higher court. Would appreciate
wire at our expense.
National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People.
Jackson, Miss, April 21, 1920.
National Association for the Advance
ment of Colored People, 0 Fifth
Avenue, New York City
Rev. E. R. Franklin given: five
