Attempted Murder and Riots. Robert R.
Stewart, Esq. of Philadelphia, whilst residing at
Trinidad, Cuba, as American consul, purchased a
negro boy for six hundred dollars- a native of Africa
, of the Eboe tribe. Being about to leave Tri-
regularly him, giving Juan,
or Whan, the choice of coming with him to the U
nited States, or of remaining behind; but apparently
attached to the family, he preferred the former.
On Friday, Whan ordered some new clothes to be
resentme- ving that Mr. Stewart would pay for
them to the amount of 35 dollars; but Mr. Stewart
said that as he had several trunks of clothes, and
upwards of$ 100 in money, that it was unreasonable
to request it. Mr. S. however, was un
willing to disappoint his domestic, and agreed to pay
for a part of the clothes, which he selected- and
here it was thought that the matter had ended.
But on last Sunday, as Mr. Stewart was taken his
afternoon's nap, Whan entered his room, and
struck him two blows with an axe on the head, one
of which mashed his hand,( with which it is supposed
that his face was covered,) and left him as killed
He then came down stairs, and quietly seated him
self at the front door, and confessed what he had
done, when he was arrested- which very soon hap-
pened. He made no attempt to escape.
It was believed that Mr. Stewart would certainly
die -- but the opinion is now entertained that he
may recover. The case, however, was doub ful, at
the last accounts.
In consequence, a choral attack was made on
the colored people of the southern part of the city,
( out of its corporate limit), last Monday night,
many houses being attacked with the fury of sav
ages, and the blacks that were seized exceedingly
abused- some of them so much so that they will
hardly survive. A house was fired, and a battle
took place between the firemen and the mob
-- but
after some terrific scenes, the former succeeded in
quenching the flames. The mob then changed
their scence of operations, and attacked other hou-
ses and persons. At 2 o'clock, exhausted with
their own violence, they dispersed, after having
reigned about six hours from S P. M. on Monday,
to 2 A. M. Tuesday. The mayor, with a strong
body of the police, kept them out of his limits, but
further had not power. They are said to have a
mounted to 1,500 persons! They respected, how
ever, the old men and women and children- but
on all others, inflicted, without discrimination, the
most horrible excesses. Some few of the blacks
defended their property- and five shots were dis
charged; but, generally, their great object was to
keep out of the way, or conceal themselves.
The riots continued on Tuesday night in Moy
amensing; but no great damage was done. The
people of color had generally left their homes and
,
fled to the parts adjacent- sleeping, or
to sleep, in the open attempting[ Niles.
