( From our Foreign Correspondent.)
LIVERPOOL, Sept. 16, 1835.
The British Parliament has at length terminated its
sittings. The King in person prorogued both Houses on
Thursday last, in a speech remarkable for nothing but its
vagueness. Kings' speeches in this country are regarded
with feelings of general indifference. They have long
been proverbial for mystifying rather than elucidating
the feelings and intentions of the government for the
time being. A King's speech is, in fact, a more thing
of a certain set of about" ha
ing received from foreign powers renewed assurances
of their good will towards this country;" thanking
the gentlemen of the House of Commons for voting
the supplies: congratulating them on their" uare-
mitting and devoted attention to the best interests of
the country," with divers other honied expressions, which
Royalty is made to repeat at the opening and conclusion
of each session of Parliament, as a parrot does
its lesson. These documents form a striking, and as far
as royalty is concerned, very unfavorable contrast to the
hold, able, zealous, and luminous erpose which the mes
sages of your Presidents to Congress annually present.
The general expression in this country on perusing one
of these able compositions, developing as they do, in the
most minute yet interesting form, the whole machinery
of your internal as well as foreign policy is-" how un
like our king's speeches!" I can assure you that these
messages are annually perused with great attention by
the mass of the People of England; they are published at
full length in all the metropolitan journals, and such of
the country papers as cannot find space for the whole,
present to their readers the most interesting and striking
passages Your countrymen, I fancy, will not be dis
pleased with. this. It proves that the prejudices, which
pleased
interest, and selfishness have generated in alienating the
parent from the children- for the two countries may be
said to have sprung originally from the same stock, are
fast fading away, and that we now take a degree of in-
terest in your movements and entertain a respect- per
haps, I night, without much exaggeration, say attach
ment to many of your institutions, which must be productive
on both sides of kind and friendly feelings.
O'Connell has been dining at Manchester, and seized
the opportunity for denouncing the House of Lords, inber
the most strong and indignant terms. This speech is,
like every thing emanating from him, able and humorous.
He states that he is not opposed to a House of Lords,
but to the house of Lords. That house, he insists, should
be made elective; every county through the country
which contains a certain amount of population should
be enabled to return one or more peers, as the case might
be, who should thus be made responsible to the people.
This is not only sensible but just. The trutli is, that
the country from one extreme to the other has become
disgusted with the present Constitution of the House of
Lords. That body, by their mad and stupid acts during
the present session, have sealed their own doom. But
I will not further enlarge upon this theme, as it is one
which must necessarily be comparatively uninteresting
to you, though of the highest national importance to us.
I think I told you in one of my late letters that O'Con
neil did not sit easy under the burst of indignation
which his attack on the citizens of the U. S. has provoked
. He is sensitively alive to every thing happening
among you, and the severe tomahawking which some of
your journals have administered to him has annoyed him
considerably. Albeit" Daniel" is unused to the" melt
ing mood," he is anxious, believe me, to stand well with
the American people generally the" noblest assembly
of freemen in the world." I know- that such is his feel
ing, and I ground the assertion on the private assurance
of a gentleman who is intimately acquainted with him.
The best proof of this, however, of his anxiety to make
the amende honorabic, is the following defence of the
American Union, made at Manchester on Thursday last,
in allusion to what fell from Sir Robert Peel at Tai
worth.
" Peel, in his speech, says, that Democracy has not
flourished in America. Why, they began their war the
year I was born, and that was sixty years ago, and they
have gone on prospering ever since. And what could
Sir Robert Peel find against them? Horrible outrages;
a murder committed on five gambiers, who came into a
town and cheated its inhabitants. They deserved to be
ducked and sent away. The people wanted to send them
away; they resisted, and in the attack upon their place,
a physician was shot. The people got hold of the 5 men
and hung them. There they committed murder, and for
such proceedings I am as little the advocate as Sir Robert
Peel can be. But what does he do? He attributes that
murder to their government! Are there no murderers
in this country? Did Sir Robert Peel never hear of
Peterton, or what has been called the Manchester mas
in
sacre?( Cheers!) Why the actors in the hangings
in
America, by what they call Lynch Law, will be, as they
ought to be, punished for their crime, and I'll warrant the
American government will do all it can to punish then;
above all i am sure it will never applaud, or thank, or reward
any of them. But what did Sir Robert Peel's go-
verminent do to the authors of the Manchester massacre?
They gave them thanks, and rewarded them, and honored
them.( Cheers.)
This explanation of O'Connell's respecting what is
termed with you," Lynch Law," is of great utility at
this moment, as it is not understood in its true light
the majority of persons in this country, and the Tory by
writers have made it the text on which to string the most
abominable inferences respecting the lawless liberty and
utter disregard of human life existing under your republican
institutions.
I observed that the Anti- Slavery quacks- Thompson
and his co- adjutors- have raised quite a storm amongst in
you I do not wonder at the disgust which has been
. ex
cited throughout the Union by the anties of these mis- make
taken enthusiasts. There is something morally degrad-
ing in the circumstance of paid agents appearing among
the natives of a foreign country, to instruct an able, en
the
subject of their social and national duties. Many people
here appear to think that the question of the abolition
of slavery will ultimately lead to the dismemberment of from
your now consolidated mighty nation. I do not for my Blue
own part participate in such gloomy anticipations.
The French Chambers were dissolved on Friday last,
the 11th inst. Thirty new Peers were recently created,
and their names have been duly published in the" Mo-
niteur." The Peerage, judging from the names which chard
compose this list, is at present with our neighbors, as it Seeds
is with ourselves, at a discount. The past session must
be considered a inost important one in the history of the
France. Whether the new laws will work well, and the
whether the people will tamely submit to the galling insults
put upon their most high and valued privileges, in and
the gagging of the press, and thus closing up the only
safe and legitimate channel of public opinion, remains to& c
be seen This much is certain, that the present head
. of
the French nation will gradually and hypocritically cur
the last vestige of public liberty in that country- if
tail the people will permit him.- Albany Daily Advertiser.
