BRUTAL MURDERER
PAYS USUAL PENALTY
DESPITE EFFORT OF VICTIM'S
FATHER WM. HAMILTON, A
FARMER, IS TAKEN FROM JAIL
AND LYNCHED.
Asotin, Wash., August 5.- Despite the
efforts of the little victim's father, Sheriff
Richards of Asotin county, who had
sworn in twenty- five deputies to guard
the brute, William Hamilton, a well- to-
do farmer, the self- confessed outrager
and brutal murderer of little Mabel Rich-
ards, was forcibly taken from the Asotin
county jail shortly after midnight and
lynched by a mob of over 1000 men, which
had been congregating all day from all
parts of Asotin county.
All night long the feeling that Hamil-
ton should be strangled grew in volume.
There were those that thought the wretch
should be tortured, but it was finally
agreed that vengeance would be satisfied
by blotting out the life of the beast.
About 12:15 o'clock twenty masked
men, their faces concealed by handkerchiefs
, marched in an orderly manner up
the streets toward the jail. When they
got within sight the guards called them
to halt. The answer from the masked
men was to throw the guards to the
ground. The keys were taken from the
guards, the jail were entered and finally
entrance was affected into the jail
proper.
Meanwhile another company of masked
men, about eighty in number, had marched
up the the street and taken possession
of the entrance of the jail. With
these men none attempted to interfere.
They kept back the crowd, which had
filled the streets all night waiting for
the lynching, which it was certain would
occur, and as soon as the attack was
made upon Hamilton's cell, the entire
population of the town, their numbers
swelled by people from the surrounding
country, gathered about the jail.
When the lynchers and Hamilton reached
the corner of First and Fillmore
streets they halted under a guy wire
which crosses the street and adjoins electric
light poles. Here one of the leaders
asked Hamilton if he wanted to confess
. He did so.
Some of the mob thought hanging too
good for him and wanted to torture the
brute, but the original programme
vailed and it was decided to hang him pre-.
