WHOLESALE
APPLICATION OF LYNCH LAW.
follow- us of the informs fromrkansas, terday
A friend of ours, who arrived in the city yes.
manner in which that law, more tyrranous than
the code of Draco- Lynch Law- has, in this
as well as in every other instance where it has,
been appealed to, been carried into effect.
Between the 5th and 10th inst., Phillips county
, in Arkansas, about 40 miles below Helena,
and the county of Coahoma, in the Mississippi,
on the opposite side of the river, appear to have
the scene of mob and lynch law to a
become greater extent than has lately been recorded by
the public press.
A numerous gang of counterfeiters had their
places of rendezvous and the abodes of their fam
lies in the above named counties, to the great
and continued annoyance of the citizens and the
trading flat boatmen on the river. Besides their
encroachment on the peace and property of the
public in that way, they of late turned their criminal
industry to horse stealing to such an extent
as to rouse the citizens of the whole neighbor
hood.
The latter, headed by Capt. Barney Bradford,
formed into a volunteer company of about 100
well armed men, commanded and lead by said
Capt. Bradford, Mr. J. Lunsford and Spear, from
Arkansas and Squire Forrer and James How
arton, from, Mississippi, and after an active search
names, following learned the whom we among
of several days, succeeded in capturing 27 men,
viz: Hugh Tally, Lewis Hingston, Andrew
McLaughlin, Willis Pollock, Hugh Cotton, El
liot and Robert Hunter, the latter, lately from
New York Joe Merritt and Mc Commick.
The volunteers, used the following stratagem
¹o seize the scoundrels. They engaged a trading
at
boat at Hel na and hid about 50 men in the store
room; then they descended the river, landing at
place where they suspected to fall in with
every the counterfeiters. These depraved men came
intention the with produce, purchase to on board
of paying for it in counterfeit money. They
were thus taken and secured in the boat. When
the number had increased to 27 men, nine* of
them were tied hand and feet, and, as the report
says, drowned in the Mississippi, near Island No,
69, in the presence of two men, Harrod and Burgess
, who it appears, officiated, or at least took
an active part in the execution of the sentence.
We understood that the company is increasing
in number, and intends to proceed to the
mouth of White river. When our informant
met a division of them they were in pursuit of a
certain Merian Wright. When he arrived at
Napoleon, at the mouth of Arkansas river, he
learned that some six or seven dead bodies had
been seen floating on the river opposite that
place, and also that some of the counterfeiters
who escaped had been seen passing down the
river with uncommon speed, in order to
their pursuers.- Picayune. evade
