other official papers, all of which, cure of Consumption, Asthma and Liver
informed, were correctly sent from Mazat- plaint, was discovered some ten years
Vera Cruz, about six weeks since. I Since that time it has, by its own merits
time now to inform you that every rapidly, surely, and safely working
stated in that letter has been more than through the opposition of quacks and
up to this date. The gold mines con- feiters, until by its true value and intrinsic
be as rich as before, although the rainy cellence, it has gained for itself a most
has caused many to suspend their work. popularity and established itself in the
be no doubt but that at least$ 1.000,- dence of an intelligent and enlightened
gold, at$ 16 per ounce Troy has been from one end of the continent to the
from the mines. The most accurate es- The testimony of thousands who have
am able to make show that$ 1.500,- lieved and cured by this valuable article
been sent from the country, and$ 1.- show that it stands unrivalled- at the
of it has gone from this port. One ves- all other medicines for the cure of diseases
$ 400.000. Two- thirds of all that has which it is recommended. The genuine
exported has gone to foreign countries, and Wistar's Balsam of Wild Cherry is now
to foreign mints. by duly appointed agents, and all
dear sir, in great haste, yours truly, dealers in medicule, in all large cities
J. L. FOLSOM. important towns throughout the United
JESUP, Washington Canadas, and British Provinces.
, D. C.
BEWARE OF COUNTERFEITERS AND
CORWIN'S BIRTH PLACE. The unparalleled and astonishing
DR. WISTAR'S BALSAM OF WILD CHERRY. in
from an old citizen of Bourbon coun-
Kentucky, to a literary friend in this city, diseases for which it is recommended
following account of the old Hallock many cases after the skill of the best
, in which was born the eloquent and was unavailing, has effected a large and
United States Senator from Ohio ing demand for it. This fact has caused
lately visited the house Corwin was unprincipled counterfeiters and imitators
It is a one- story leg cabin, about twelve palm off spurious mixtures, of similar name
, with one door and two small win- appearance, for the genuine Balsam.
BEWARE OF IMPOSITION.
The glass, six by eight; the only ones of
anywhere. I remarked The greater the value of any discovery
the
that
public
I know of,
lady who resided there, Mrs. Case, higher it is held in the esteem of
widow look a little old. Te so much in proportion is that public liable
