" Resolved, That mob law, Lynch law, or any
other attempted exercise of political or civil power
outside of the regular channels of justice and law
which result in injury to person, destruction of
property or loss of life, cannot by any sophistical
plea of necessity or self- defense be otherwise
characterized than as violence, robbery and assassination
, the toleration of which must of necessity
lead to retaliation, anarchy and civil war.
" Resolved. That the act of a portion of the citizens
of Lincoln county by which, in March last
the Rev. John G. Fee, a citizen of Kentucky and
of the United States, was interrupted and silenced
in the utterance of his political and religious sentiments
and opinions, whether they be good or bad
and which we neither intend to indorse or denounce
, was a usurpation of power unknown to
our Constitution and laws, anarchical and revolutionary
, and which ought to be resisted by all honorable
means, by appeals to the Courts of Justice,
and all other means failing, by repelling force by
force!
" Resolved, That we stand by the citizens of the
Glade, in Madison county, and the citizens of
Boone's Fork, and of Green's School House, in
Rockcastle courty, in their public resolves to main-
tain the supremacy of the laws and the liberty of
the citizen, no matter what may be his party or
principles.
" Resolved, That the newspaper presses of all
parties, under whatever pretense of patriotism and
public interest, who invoke or sanction Lynch law,
cannot be viewed by true and sensible men and
honest Republicans, in any other light than as the
base tools of party, or the hireling followers of
power!
" Resolved, That the times demand calm judg.
ment, fixed purpose, courage, devotion to duty and
heroic patriotism, such as called our fathers to
the field in 1776, in the maintenance of the liberties
which they bequeathed us; and to the defense
of the Constitution of the United States, and the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, we pledge once
more, our lives, our fortunes, and our most sacred
honor.'
" Resolved, That these resolutions be signed by
the President and Secretary of the meeting,
have due publicity given them. and
