Sunday morning while Christian was in
the tavern yard of the McDowell hotel, he
had the knife in his hand and told old Mr.
Dull, the stage driver, that he intended to
use it that night. At half past 1 o'clock
P. M., of the same day Christian stationed
himself in front of the church and threatened
to attack Blackburn as he came out,
but was restrained from so doing by Mr.
A. Moore, or the murder would probably
have been committed in the presence of
the dispersing congregation. At this time
nothing was known of Christian's intentions
except by a few who never dreamed
,,
of such a result.
In the evening the church bell rung,
and the people were crowding into the
house of God Dr. Junkin
. was to preach
,
and came with his family, his daughter being
escorted by young Blackburn, in the
very bey- day of youthful hilarity. As
Blackburn passed into the vestibule, Christian
tapped him on the shoulder and said
he wanted to speair with him. Blackburn
turned about, and the two walked off together
. Two cadets were standing by and
saw this. One of them knowing of the
previous difficulty, remarked to the other
" let us follow them- they will have a
fight."" No," replied the other-" there
is no fear- C. has only a stick and B will
be a full match for him." They passed
out of the gate by themselves, turned the
corner and walked up as far as the hay
scales. It was then partially dark, the
moon was not up and daylight was nearly
gone. James W. Massie, who was on his
way to church, saw the scuflle, saw the two
tall and rushed forward. Christian, on
perceiving him, jumped up and ran off as
rapidly as possible. Massie finding that
Blackburn could not get up, and hearing
a gurgling sound in his throat, called for
he'p. As soon as aid could be obtained
poor Blackburn was taken to Wm. White's
where he soon breathed his last, never having
spoken a word. When a light was
procured, it was found that B. had re-
ceived a large gash in the left side of his
throat, an inch and a half below the ear.-
Four physicians were in attendance in two
or three minutes, but they only arrived in
time to see one gap and B. was dead. In
less than ten minutes fron the time Black-
burn left the church with Christian, he
was a corpse.
Dr. Junkin had ascetided the pulpit and
opened the service, and few of the cou-
gregation, therefore, knew of the murder
till the close of the sermon. As many cadets
had entered the church, one after another
, heard it and left, causing a great
confusion. The congregation knew that
something had happened, but most persons
kept their seats.
Christian, finding that he had probably
killed Blackburn, ran down to the tavern
in great haste and took to his room. He
was pursued by a man, and finding that he
was known, gave himself up, but not until
he had changed his clothes. He now
says that he committed the deed in self-
defence, but nobody believes it, as he was
armed with a stick, a pistol and bowie
knife, while poor Blackburn had no
about him.
weapon
As soon as the murder was made known,
the cadets became greatly excited, and
threats were made of Lynch law, and so
great was the crowd in front of the tavern,
that the officers had to take Christian out
of the back way and by an unfrequented
street to the jail, where a strong guard
was stationed all night.
A Coroner's Jury of Inquest have been
sitting all day, and are not yet half through
the testimony:
On examining Blackburn's body to- day,
it was found that he was cut in the head
above the right ear, and stabbed very badly
in the shoulder. The wound in the
neck was so deep that the weapon had
passed clear through the neck and struck
the jaw- bone on the opposite side. His
clothes were also very much cut.
Christian threw the knife and stick
away, when near Mr. White's store.
believe the pistol has not been found, although
it is certain that he purchased one
of Mr. Pettigrew on the day before the
murder. If he had it with him he did
not use it. The knife and stick when
found were both very bloody. A large
of blood was found in the street
quantity near the hay scales It looked to be full
