Arrival of the Northern Light.
NEW YORK, Sept. 7.- The steamer Northern
Light, with Panama dates of the 29th ult ..
arrived this morning, bringing three hundred
and sixty passengers and$ 312,000 in specie.
The Pacific arrived at San Juan on the 28th
with the passengers from California. They came
through in twenty- three days and six hours
from San Francisco. The steamer Panama
was to have left San Francisco on the 15th with
consignments of$ 450,000 in specie to Adams
& Co., and$ 425,000 to Page, Bacon& Co.
/ t San Juan the weather was fine, and the
health of the place good. The Northern Light
left the British steamer Great Britain, from
Navy Bay.
The ship Staffordshire from Boston, reached
San Francisco on the 13th ult.
Advices from Oregon state that a battle was
fought near Table Rock between the Indians
and Whites, in which forty of the latter were
killed.
Sam !. W. Salter, of Philadelphia, died at San
Francisco on the 11th:
The Swedish barque Sarmiento had arriv
oned at Honolulu from Panama, bound to San
Francisco. On the passage, a boy named
Woolfork, of Kentucky, shot one of his comrades
through the heart in a trifling dispute.
The murderer was immediately tried by Lynch
law and hung at the yard arm.
The Hon. Edward McGaughey, formerly
a Whig member of Congress from Indiana,
died on board the Winfield Scott.
The Government steamer Massachusetts
sailed from San Francisco on the 12th for N.
York.
A doel was fought on the 12th between
Wm. H. Jones and John S. Nugent, in which
the former was wounded.
A party of seceding Mortons, who left
Missouri two years ago with Prophet Brews-
ter, arrived recently at San Diego, from Gila,
in a very destitute condition. They report
that Brewster was residing at Sorocco, in Mex-
Lico.
The suspicious movements of the Yuba and
other Indians were causing great uneasiness
in the South. The Government troops were
moving actively in that vicinity.
Five hundred overland emigrants had arrived
in Eldorado county during the week
ending the 10th. The cholera and small pox
were causing great ravages among the emigrants
on the plains.
The news of Mr. Clay's death, on its reception
at Panama, created the most profound impression
. The city was arrayed in mourning
for two weeks, and the funeral procession was
one that would have done honor to New
or Philadelphia. York
