The Recent Massacres in Kentucky- Further
Particulars.
The telegraph announced briefly, a few days
ago, that a family of four persons of the name of
Joyce, living some miles from Louisville, were
all brutally murdered, and their dwelling barnt,
The additional particulars we gather from the
Louisville Courier:
The house was the property of William Joyce,
a young man, who was fortunately away from
home on the night of the murder to attend a wed
ding. He had, however, left a brother, Richard
Joyce, aged 1), at the house to take care of his
property and the family during his absence.-
The inmates of the house were Mrs. Lydia Joyce,
her son, Richard Joyce, a young man of 19. Mrs.
Welsh, her daughter, a widow, and the latter's
little daughter, a child of three years The old-
.
est son, William Joyce, the wner of the house,
as before stated, was away from home. The
house was burnt to the ground late Thursday
night, and the next morning an investigation led
to the horrible belief that the entire household
had been murdered. The charred remains of the
two women were found near the fire place, while
those of the oung man were lying in the place
supposed to have been occupied by the bed.
Mr. Wm. Joyce returned to his home to find it
a mass of smouldering ruins, and with the assistance
of the neighbors instituted a vigorous investigation
of the premises, and the cause of the
disaster. Suspicion at once fastened upon several
of the negroes in the vicinity, and on searching
he premises of Mr. Pendleton, a watch, coat,
pants, and other things. the property of William
Joyce, were found secreted under the house.-
Bill, a slave of Mr. Pendleton, was then arrested
and confessed that he and three others murdered
the family, plundered and then fi.ed the house.
At this revelation the greatest excitement prevailed
, and lynch law was about to be enforced at
one, but calmer judgment overruled the action
of the more hasty, and the three other negroes
implicated were caught and tied to stakes to make
them confess, which they finally did, and were
committed to jail. They stated that they went
to the house about midnight, broke open the door,
and encountered Richard Joyce, the brother of
William. Ile was brained with a club in the
presence of his mother and sister. The
aged mother seized a pair of tongs to rush
to the defence of her son, but on the instant
of whom
was attacked by the negroes, one
knocked her senseless with 8 club. The
daughter. Mrs. Welch, attempted to escape out
of window but was caught by the feet dragged
a,,
back, and then beaten to death. The infuriated
ruffians then sacked the house, took the little girl
of Mrs., threw it upon the bed, set fire to
it and fled Welch, the child being actually burnt alive.
