This is the ruinous and disgraceful feature of
an American rebellion. It is the people rising
against their own authority, impeaching their own
wisdom, overturning their own sovereignty, and in
every conceivable way and shape stultifying themselves
. If laws are inadequate to the protection
of society, if the administration of justice is in
efficient or perverted," better bear the ills you
have," under a republican constitution, which provides
a regular and legal mode of changing laws
and changing officers, than fly to the measureless
abyss of anarchy. Free society can suffer from
no crime like that which it commits against itself,
when it raises its hand against its own authority.
Lynch law in a Republic is a political suicide,
which destroys both the form and the soul
Liberty. of
This Vigilance Committee of California is indeed
a monstrous apparition in a free government. Its
organization has the command of seven thousand
bayonots, and from twenty to twenty- five pieces
of artillery. Among its troops are three or four
hundred Frenchmen, formerly members of the
Garde Mobile of France. The French Consul remonstrated
against their joining the organization,
but they excused themselves on the ground that
they had no other mode of earning a subsistence.
The Danish Consul at San Francisco, a member of
an abolition society at Paris, is a member of this
organization. It is to the honor of the South,
which respects law and order, that but few South-
era men belong to this colossal tribunal of Lynch.
And what are the mighty achievements which
required the creation of this anomalous tribunal,
on so stupendous& scale, with an apparently unlimited
amount of men and means at its command?
They have hung four men, and banished some
fifty, who of course can return as soon as the Vl-
gilance Committee loses its hold of power!
" An ocean into tempest tost,
To waft a feather or to drown a fly."
We cannot but believe that this Vigilance Committee
has some other design than that apparent
upon the surface. We strongly suspect that,
on
while the bandfull of Southern members are ut.
terly unsuspicious of any ulterior object, it is part
and parcel of the grand scheme of rebellion and
revolution which resisted to the last the passage
of the Army bill in Congress, which threatens to
deluge the plains of Kansas with fraternal blood,
and which is seeking to substitute at Washington
a sectional for a national Government, and subju.
gate the South to freedom. A great many purposes
might be subserved by the establishment of
such a vast military organization besides the hanging
of a handfull of felons. It might interrupt the
regular operations of law, so as to prevent the collection
of debts; it might overawe and obstruct
the exercise of the elective franchise, so as to
throw the State into the hands of a Black Republican
candidate for the Presidency; it might prepare
the way for the establishment of an independent
Pacific Republic. We do not charge that
these are its objects; we are quite sure that the
few Southern members of the organization have
none but honest and proper motives; but we cannot
banish the suspicion that this gigantic combination
and lavish outlay of treasure
were never
called into existence for the trifling purpose of
ridding the community of a few miserable felons
and cide driving! a blackguard pugilist to commit sui,
