BARBARIC.
No shadow of excuse can be found by
the most rabid southern fire eater or
most violent negro hater for the recent
lynching in Statesboro, Georgia. In this
case the negro criminals had been tried
by the courts, found guilty, and sentenced
to death. But the mob, in most
flagrant defiance of law, attacked the
jail or court house, utterly defled the
militia who had been brought together,
and lynched the prisoners. No southern
journal has the shadow of a pretext
for defending such an outrage as this
and to their honor let it be said that
none, as far as heard from, has attempted
to justify or condone the of-
fence. It was an offence against decency
, against law and order, an act,
in short, which only was to be expected
of utter barbarians and the most ignorant
of savage races. The militia, too,
completely failed to do their plain duty,
and proved shamelessly incompetent.
Governor Terrell of Georgia has most
properly ordered a court- martial for
the officers who commanded the aforesaid
militia, but most likely they will
be let off with a mild reprimand. The
governor had no other alternative aft-
er the report of the court of inquiry
in the case, which placed the responsibility
upon the commanding officer
and four of his subordinates, who cow-
ardly shirked their plain duty, and
were no doubt in sympathy with the
mob. The report censures the officers,
and the more so, because the force of
men they had was wholly adequate to
restrain the mob and rescue the prisoners
. The officers actually mde no at-
tempt at all at rescue, the report says.
It exonerates the enlisted men, as it
appears they manifested a desire and
readiness to do their duty in the case.
One officer Acer of of the lot, Lieutenant Mc-
Intyre, is wholly exonerated, as he beg-
illged at the time to be allowed to use
his command to rescue the prisoners,
but was refused. This most flagrant
case of mob violation of law, done without
shadow of excuse, must, if anything
can, awaken renewed sentiment
and activity against lynching in the
south, and in the north, too, for
matter. that
