Statesboro, Ga., Aug. 16.- With clothing
satnrated with kerosene, writhing and
twisting in their agony, screaming to
Heaven for the mercy that the mob would
not show, Paul Reed and Will Cato, ne
groes, two of the principals in the murder
der and burning of Henry Hodges and
wife and three of their children, six miles
from Statesboro, three weeks ago, were
burned at the state today.
The men were chained to a large stump,
and a wagon load of pine wood was piled
around them and ten gallons of kerosene
was thrown over all. A photographer got
several views of the scene. Frenzied
cheers rent the air. When the match was
applied to the pyre, Reed was asked to
tell the truth before he died.
" Yes, I killed Mr. and Mrs. Hodges,"
he replied.
" Who killed the children?" he was
then asked.
" Handy Bell," came the response, as
the flames leaped upward.
The spectacle was frightful. As the
flames touched Reed's naked, oil- soaked
skin, he twisted his head around in an
endeavor to choke himself and avoid the
fearful torture. Only once did he complain
. He said:" Lord, have mercy."
Cato screamed in agony and begged that
he be shot. His oil- soaked hair was almost
the first thing the flames fastened on,
and he screamed with agony, while the
hemp rope became a collar of fire around
his neck. A thrill of horror ran through
the more timid of the spectators. Before
the flames had quenched Cato's life, the
rope had burned in two and his head
swung from side to side as he endeavored
to avoid the fiery tongues. By effort almost
superhuman, he writhed under the
close- locked chains. For only about three
minutes was he visible to the crowd be
fore the great pile of fagots made a wall
of flame which the wind wiped around on
Cato's body and hid him from view.
Cato was the first to become unconscious
and was, perhaps, the first dead.
Before the flames had progressed very far
up his body his head sank forward and
many believed that the fire got into his
lungs and killed him. As Cato's head
swung to and fro some of the more excited
members of the party commenced throwing
light wood knots at it. As soon as it
was seen that the men were dead the crowd
commenced dispersing. A large number
remained behind however piling more fuel
on, until both bodies were burned
the trunks. except
