Unidentified Tramp Is
for Murder of
Hanged Policeman.
RIOT THEN BECOMES GENERAL.
Every Black That Can Be Found
Is Driven From the City and
Houses Are Burned.
MANY ARE SEVERELY INJURED.
Fire Department's Hose Cut to
to
Prevent Extinguishment of
of
Fiames- City Officials Plead
in Vain With Mad Crowd.
for
REPUBLIC SPECIAL
Joplin, Mo .. April 15.- After an exciting
struggle in the streets and around the jail
here to- night an infuriated mob hanged an
unidentified negro tramp, who was accused
. of the murder of Police Officer Leslie in the
Kansas City Southern yards here last night,
The rlot thus started was carried into the
negro quarter, where shantles were stoned
.
and burned, and before midnight every negro
that could be found was driven from
; the city, many severely injured.
Efforts made by the Fire Department to
extinguish the flames in the negro houses
were hampered by the mob, which cut the
;
hose at every opportunity and otherwise interfered
with the firemen.
There are' grave fears that more serious
crimes will follow if any other negroes are
discovered here before the fury of the mob
has abated and the condition of terrorism
has passed.
Officer Leslie had ordered several negroes
who had taken refuge in a box car to surrender
, and when they failed to do so he
fired several shots at the car.
A negro slipped from the car, and, coming
up behind the officer, shot him through the
head. The negro then fled and within a
short time posses were after him.
ARMED WITH RIFLE.
About 3 o'clock this afternoon Lee Ful
lerton, aged 21. located the fugitive in a
slaughter- house just east of Joplin. The
ne ro was armed with a rifle and defied arrest
.
Fullerton slipped into the structure unobserved
and crept up behind the negro. Suddenly
he sprang at the unsuspecting fugl
tive and before resistance could be made he
had the negro on his back with a knife at
his throat.
The negro then surrendered his rifle and
pointing the weapon at him. Fuilerton
marched him out of the building.
With the assistance of another man the
negro was brought to Joplin and placed in
fail. News of the capture spread rapidly
and the jail was speedily surrounded by
hundreds of persons. There were cries of
" lynch him" on all sides.
City Attorney P. H. Decker mounted the
jail steps and made a strong plea in behalf
of law and order. This served to temporarily
stay the nob, but did not appease it,
and in a short time after Decker's speech
the mob started to batter in a section of
the jail wall.
WALL BROKEN DOWN.
Every effort was made to prevent the en
trance of the mob. but without avail, and
within fifteen minutes the infuriated men
had gained entrance to the Jall and secured
the trembling negro.
As he was dragged forth City Attorney
Decker again interfered and urged that the
negro be tried by the courts. For half an
hour he talked, and the mob listened to him
with the negro in their custody.
At one time it seemed that the City Attorney
would win, as members of the mob
began dispersing, but suddenly a rush was
made for the spot where the negro was
held, and he was dragged two blocks from
the jail, a rope fastened around his neck
and after the rope had been thrown over
the cross- bar of a telegraph pole a score
of men attempted to pull the negro from
the ground.
TUG- OF- WAR FOR LIFE.
seized the
As many more negro and
pulled to prevent him being hanged. For
some moments it was a veritable tug- of- war,
but re- enforcements on the free end of the
rope proved the stronger, and the negro,
despite his protestations of innocence, was
finally swung into the air and strangled to
death, while shouts of satisfaction went up
from the mob.
The name of the negro was not known
and he was a stranger in Joplin.
As soon as the negro was dead the mob
dispersed in the later the
body was cut down and taken in charge by
the Coroner.
RIOT SPREADS.
The lynching of the negro served to only
temporarily satisfy the indignation of the
mob, and later to- night hundreds of men
again assembled and rioted through the
negro section of the city, burning houses,
stoning negroes, and finally drove every
negro from the confines of Joplin. The po to
lice were powerless.
The first act of the mob after hanging
the negro was to demand the release from
jail of a local character, known as" Hickory
Bill," who was under arrest on the charge
of assaulting a negro, In the hope that this
would appease the mob, the prisoner was set
free. nue
But the mob did not disperse. Instead, a tell
rush was made through Main street, the
but
principal street of Joplin, and every negro
was frightened off the street and fled to the
north part of the city, where the colored
population resides.
In this way the negroes were driven from
out
all parts of the city to the negro section.
Then the mob charged down on the section. Bon
Stones were thrown, doors and windows of
negro houses were broken in and finally
several were fired. The Fire Department
responded, but many of the houses were ken
burned to the ground. they
The mob made endeavors to prevent the
Fire Department from extinguishing
flames and were partially successful. the
