Charles Woodward May Be Given Trial for
Killing Sheriff.
CASPER AUTHORITIES AIM TO PROTECT
Mayor Cantlin and Deputy Kyle Prepared
to Foll Any Attempt at
Mob Violence- Tubbs Has
the Prisoner.
CASPER, Wyo., Jan. 29 .-( Special Tele ..
gram.)- Acting Governor Chatterton today
telegraphed here, asking if Charles, Wood
ward would be given a trial in court or
tried by Judge Lynch, and whether or not
the local authorities would protect him.
This has aroused the people of this town
into expressing their claim that many lynchings
have occurred in his own county. The
county and town authorities here say they
are determined to sustain the law without
any help from the governor and his militia.
Mayor Cantlin said today:" I am mayor
of this town, and while I cannot say whether
or not Woodward will be lynched, I am convinced
there will be no disturbance take
place in this town, and I don't need any
outside assistance. I will do all I can to
see that no disturbance takes place, and if
any mob takes the town it will do it by
force and because it is the strongest party.
I will swear in half the town as police be
fore I will see any trouble."
Deputy Kyle says he has over 100 deputies
to see that Woodward is protected. The
town is full of deputies, one of the most
determined set of men that ever took the
oath of office. Mob talk is dying out, owing
to the fact that Woodward, at the time of
his arrest, had on Ricker's pistol and belt.
and it is claimed he rode Deputy Johnson's
horse from Woodward's ranch and had it
in his possession at the various sheep
camps. Owing to their faith in the positive
nature of this evidence against him, the
people are willing to see Woodward tried
in the district court, which is now in session
.
So many men have been sworn in as deputies
that those favoring lynch law cannot
find a leader, unless the people from the
outside take a hand in the matter. On the
outside, meaning the range, are many determined
men, and if they break into the
matter a hot time may be looked for be-
tween the deputies and the rangers.
Judge Bramel has just telegraphed Acting
Governor Chatterton that he will do all
he can to give Woodward a speedy trial,
and that he thinks the local authorities
will protect Woodward.
Officer Tubbs is expected to get back with
Woodward in about four days. He is a
thoroughbred, will resent any attempt to
take Woodward and has done all in his
power to see that he is protected. If the
inob tries to take Woodward from Tubbs.
it is believed there will be trouble. Mayor
Cantlin is a man of reputation and if a mob
congregates he intends to disperse them,
and if they don't disperse, no one can fore
tell the consequences.
Woodward was captured thirteen miles
east of Billings, Mont., and Sheriff Tubbs
left there yesterday morning and expects
for to be back here February 7.
