MURDERED HIS CHILD.
A Topeka Mob Thirsting for an Inhuman
Father's Blood.
TOPEKA, Kan., Nov. 4.- Frank Mc-
Lain, a scavenger, is under arrest for the
murder of his nine- months- old son. The
child died yesterday. McLain has three
daughters who told in school yesterday
that their father had taken the baby by
the heels and pounded it against the
door. The story was spread by the
school children, and this morning the
body was taken charge of by the police,
and a post mortem examination proved
beyond doubt that the child had been
treated in a most brutal manner. Its
face was covered with scars; the
left ear was deeply gashed; the
body was bruised in several places,
and the left leg was broken. The coroner's
jury decided that death was the
result of wilful, malicious, inhuman
treatment at the hands of McLain. As
soon as the result of the inquest was
generally known, a mob began to collect
around the city jail, clamoring for the
murderer's life. The officers assured the
leaders that McLain was not confined
there. A committee searched the jail
and reported that the prisoner was not
to be found. The mob then made a
search of the courthouse. The sheriff
assured them that he was removed be-
beyond their reach. It is believed that
McLain ie secreted in the insane asylum
and the mob may determine to search
that place.
At midnight the mob dispersed, hav.
ing concluded it was useless to make
further search for the murderer.

A Double Lynching.
BASTROP, La., Nov. 4.-W. S. Felton
J. T. Smith
and were taken from jail
here by a mob and hanged. The parties
were accused of having murdered J.
Dykus some months ago.
A Surprise Party.
PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 4.- Roger Conner
and Dan Richardson, of the New York
contract with the local American Association
club.
The 1tata Case Appealed.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 4.- An appeal has
been ordered by the attorney- general
from the decision of the United States
court at Los Angeles, in the Itata case.
The Army of China.
" What kind of an army has China?"
" Their drill and disciple would appear
curious to us, but the army has
the best of modern weapons, and, with
European leaders, the army would
prove formidable on account of its numerical
strength. With a population
of 500,000,000 an awful big army could
be equipped. And they would fight,
too. While Chinamen are not patriotic
, as we understand the word, they
do love their land. They reverence it
because it holds the bones of their ancestors
. But I think the danger of a
war is passed."-[ Chicago Tribune.
WE CARRY a full line of the finest jellies
jams, olive oils, mushrooms, peas, and, in fact,
all of the best. W. Chamberlain& Co.,
213 South Broadway goods.
