Lynch Law in Nevada.
Wretched Condition of Society- Reign of the
Roughs -- The People's Retribution.
From the Esmeralda( Nevada Territory) Star, Feb. 17.1
Eight days ago the people of Aurora, after a longit
week's patience, executed summary justice upon four as
murderous villains as were ever brought to the scaffold,
to die at the end of a rope. A state of affairs had existed
here, almost amounting to a reign of terror, for
it
nearly two years, but Dever assumed an organized
shape until tae town bseame incorporated. An election ction
was held, and the town council was composed of as
good men as we could boast; but the office of marshal
being an elective one, the rufillans were sucessful in
placing their own man in office, owing to the fact that
there were four or five candidates runnnig. No sooner
had the marshal been sworn in, than the worst villains
that ever infested a civilized community were appointed
policemen, and, with but few exceptions, they were
of as hard a set of criminals as ever went un-
composed of as
hung. If a quarrel sprang up at any time, a resort to
the pistol and knife was made at once, and murder,
both night and d became the general order of things
he gambling of the town crowded at all
times by these rullans, who were were ready to pick a quar-
any of them arrested, no matter how heinous the offense
, he was released by the marshal on straw ball,
and no complaiat would be filed in the justice's court
against Any man him going about his business in the street and
in danger of
having to turn the corners was receiving
a flying bullet from some drunken brute, who was as apt
to be a policeman as anything else. Miners would har
riedly transact their business on coming into town toward
evening, and then go home to remain there, not
venturing into the streets after dark Pominent mining
.
employ these ruffians do their
would to
companies
in
what mines
fighting, either to maintain possession of
they owned, or to get possession of others; and so
their claims were held in their anita
litigation and
as
before the district
come off each mining
were to court,
company wonid have its band of perjurers and ruffians
to swear their cases through These raffinax at last had
come to think that they had the fall control of our minh's
interests and municipal affairs so far as the public
ing,
knife
was concerned holl. by the pistol and
Men fell
peace
even in open daylight and in our most publie streets;
annishment
still the assassins would escape punishment and boldly
walk il their and
uttering
with
car streets, arishing
Imprecations in the vilest language the ineul
vilest
most
ting impanity. Thieves, and men who would be found
gamb with the Pi- Ute Indians on the sidewalks, were
ing
appointed I deputy marshalz, to collect the town licenses,
and then put the money in their own pockets, never
rendering an account of it afterwards. No honest man,
of
value his life dared to make
own a
who regarded the,
complaint in a court of Justice to bring these fellows to
an account
an
A little over two months ago, the office of marshal
was declared vacant by reason of that officer having
for some months absented himself from the town in
new election was held and D .. H. Pine, the present incumbent
, was eleted. He entered upon his duties with
ah earnestness and zeal worthy of the highest commendation
New policemen were appointed, and affairs
aEsumed a better appearance Numerous
soon.
arrests were made in spite of the most dogged resistance
to the officers. Bat the organized bands of ruf
fans were determined to resist to the death the offers
who might see proper to enfore the peace regulations
the town government. The sheriff was resisted.
and even one of the policemen was deliberately shot
at when att being shot in the groin. m, and came
were determined to win the groin. These villains
overrule the officers at all hazards.
So long as they did not molest peaceable citizens,
their shooting and killing one another was borne with
by the people with utter indifference, and to a certain
degree the press remained silent. But when the guar-
dians of the
people were threatened, and the public
endangered, every good citizen felt it be
anden
peace to
aid
his duty to and encourage the publle officers. Then
the rumanz became more insolent and defiant. A few
leading citizend formed themselves into an association
called the Citzens' Protective Union, for the pur
Poze of assisting the officers in their duty when called
their
apon. This only served to rouse anger still more,
and they determined to throw the gauntlet at the feet
of the people, daring them to pick it up. This was
done by the cruel and cold- blooded murder of W.. R.
Johnson, in one of our most public streets- a man universally
respected and beloved, and against whom
nothing could be found, save that he sent a man after
a horse thief who had stolen hia- horse before his own
door in daylig
The volcano of pablie feeling which had long been
pent up, at last burst forth. The wrath of a long suffer
and outraged people could no longer be controlled.
The people demanded tha: justice should be meted out
upon these cold blooded assassins, The sheriff marshal
and constable, with all their deputies, were, aided by
their
the people in making arrests and guarding the doors of
given throwing the least light upon the murder was
their prisons. Every information which could be
promptly given. They left their occupations almost
universally for the public good. The mills were stopped
, stores were closed, the sledge and drill in the tunnel
were no longer heard, and, moved by a common impulse
, every good citizen became at once transformed
into a soldier and shouldered his musket for the com
It was proposed to have a special term of
mon defence. was
ce. It
the district court held to try the murderers when the
coroner's jury had
knew that an application for a change but the people
of venue would
be granted, to be followed by the release of the murder-
give evidence against them, and thereby to go Carvon to
his
The people determined that the
were assassins should
The
not the innocent should
ve alive
ha.
go
harmed, but the guilty must be punished. After a
ong
week's patience had been endured and gus guard dut
and duty
night and day had been performed, the jury rendered
clear and a explicit verdict, pronouncing four of the vil-
lians as participants and one as as s. They declared
with one unanimous voies that accessory the principales
themselves into organized They suffer death.
regiment, elected their field and line officers, declared
martial law, and proceeded, calmly and determinedly,
exconté the end on pan a quiet and orderly manner to
thing was carried out in a manner
Justice was done and the people said ameu.
