Nothing could better illustrate the
present weakness of the Republican
position than jus: the attempt now be-
ing seriously made of beginning and
the investigation of so- called Southern
outrages. That such a movement is
again seriously recommended by Re
publican party leaders seems to indicate
that all questions of practical
statesmanship are of no account when
a National campaign is pending, and
that the party must now, as in the past,
pin its faith and hope to the capital
that may be made by roving commit
tees of investigation. It is putting but
a small estimate upon the judgment
and intelligence of the American people
to imagine that they can be continually
moved and influenced by manufactured
tales of Congressional com.
mittees, sent South to gather up campaign
rubbish for Northern stump
speakers to and distribute. If
there were no living questions at issue,
questions of vital concern to all sections
alike, involving matters of public
and individual interest; topics upon
which the farmer of the West and the
mechanic of the East are both interested
, and which have to do with their
material welfare, it might even then be
foolish to hunt up simply partisan and
political issues for people to quarrel
over, but when there are such ques-
and the people
tions are anxious
to hear them discussed and
debated, to make political pilgrim
ages South for no other purpose except
to inflame the public mind with manu-
factured stories of election riots and political
quarrels, seems too intolerably
foolish and absurd for men of sense to
venture upon. Yet such pilgrimages
are soberly counseled and made. Wise
statesmen who are thought worthy of
great official trusts have worked themselves
up into a white heat of patriotic
fervor, and have solemnly warned the
country against the wickedness of the
Southern Democrats, and urged the
necessity of investigating the charges
and rumors sent from the South by Republican
politicians and Republican
newspapers. The great danger which
menaced the peace of the Union from
the acts of these wicked Democrats was
feelingly dwelt and Senator
upon,
Sherman, whose heart always bleeds
for the defenseless Southern Republicans
, made one of his most impassioned
appeals for Congressional investigation.
Senator Mahone whose heart is also
,
heavy with grief from the result of the
recent election in Virginia, and the
action of the Legislature in asking him
to resign his Senatorial seat, also contributed
a startling chapter of Democratic
outrages, and between these two
the Southern outrage- mill was set in
violent motion.
But just at the threshold of this
supposedly flattering crusade the
champions are met with a very cruel
rebuff in the shape of a letter from a
Mississippi Republican, vouched for as
politically straight and personally reliable
, to the New York Herald, protesting
in strong terms against the Congressional
tour. The correspondent
complains that when Mississippi Republicans
wanted help in 1875, and when
Governor Ames aske for troops, the
Administration did not dare to act because
of a prejudice which existed in
Ohio against military interference in
the Southern States, yet the very next
winter the Boutwell Committee, with a
full complement of Senators, clerks and
came them
and took back two thousand pages of
printed testimony, and all the benefit
the committee were to the Republicans
could have been put in the eye of the
energetic chairman. This correspondent
even goes so far as to say that not
only was this whole committee demonstration
an empty delusion, but two of
the men implicated by the committee
in the lynching of a colored man, were
afterwards rewarded by their appoint-
ment to lucrative clerkships under the
Administration of which Mr. Sherman
This sort of
was so a
talk must be very unpleasant to the
Senator at the present juncture, and it
must make his heart bleed afresh to see
the objects of his patriotic regard so
stiff- necked and obdurate just when he
is upon the point of doing them so
much good. 69
whole truth is these Congres-
The
sional tours upon the eve of Presidential
campaigns are the work of performing
demagogues, who seize upon the time
and the occasion to make capital for
themselves and their party. They well
know how empty and fruitless all such
missions are, but, trusting to the credulity
of some and the ignorance of
others, hope to do a little toward the
consummation of the object in hand.
The Democratic Senators, with rare
judgment and wisdom, allowed Senators
Sherman and Mahone to unburden
themselves of their load without interference
, and the Republican Senators
as a body were not as enthusiastic and
excited as might have been expected.
The demonstration was not grandly
successful, and if now the poor down
trodden are themselves indifferent, and
would rather have the procession stay
at home, the benevolent Senators may
perhaps, after all, find it more advan-
tageous to fold up their bloody shirts
mind their own business.- Amer-
ican and Register.
