.
. A LIFE FOR A LIFE.
Lynching of John Wallace Near Little-
ton, West Virginia.
WHEELING, W. Va., March 25.- Yesterday a party
of twenty- five men took John Wallace from
the house where he was confined to hang him.
When Wallace heard the uproar he began sobbing
and praying, and as the door of his room
opened and the first of the lynchers made his
appearance, he sprang back of one of the
guards and screamed." My God! don't kill me.
Save me! Save me!"
The
knocking the guard down and trampling on
him, they threw Wallace on his back and began
to tie his arms.
Derabestioned in agony as great drope
he
of
of
murder me! Don't kill me! For God's sake
give me time to pray! I want to see a minister."
After placing the roce firmly about his neck
they dragged him down stairs head foremost,
and out of the house on the railroad track,
where he uttered horrible erles, cursing and
begging them to let him go,
They paid no attention to him, but began run-
, ning with him as if he were a log or barrel,
They took places one behind the other, and
presently began to run. Wallace did not stop
. calling until he had been dragge nearly a
quarter of a mile. He vainly tried to regain
his feet and s and up, but whenever he did the
rope
him on his back. After going nearly a mile
below Littleton they stopped and hung him to a
tree. The was the tree
about 7 o'clock last evening, the neck and spine
broken and the body horribly mangled and
bruised.
The coroner's, verdict was that the hanging
was done by the hands of parties unknown.
. A letter was found in, Wallace's pocket, say-
ing that he was persuaded to the crime more or
les by Henry Villars, and was drinking. There
is strong talk now of lynching Villars. Wal-
lace's body arrived here last night on the way
to West Alexandria, Pa., his father having telegraphed
for it. The poor old man, who is
greatly beloved by his neighbors. is almost in
sane with grief. Geo. Wallace came here on his
way to jail, where he will be held as
to the murder. accessory
