A FEARFUL SIGHT.
Coroner's Inquest Over the
Lynchers' Colored Prey.
Horrible Spectacle Presented
to the Public Gaze.
The Killing Done by Men" to
the Jury Unknown."
The Barnville Lynching.
COLUMBIA, S. C., Dec. 30.- The coro
nera inquest into the death of the eight
negroes lynched at Barnwell was held
Saturday night at the scene of the tragedy.
It was a terrible sight which the jurymen
looked upon. On the left side of the
road were the bodies of Ripley Johnson
and Mitchell Adams, charged with the
murder of Heffernan. On the opposite
side were the six bodies of the negroes
charged with implication in the murder of
young Robert Martin. They were tied to
trees to the roadside( backs to the sap
lips), a rope was passed around the tree
and around the body of the men. When
shot, the weight of their bodies had
swung down on the ropes and they occupied
all sorts of grotesque and revolting
positions. The frightful character of the
wounds shown by the testimony of the
physicians at the inquest is in brief as
follows: Henry Bury, ten balls in body,
age 34; Peter Bell, one ball in back
of neck at base of skull, aged 60;
Harrison Johnson, four balls in his body,
age 35; Rafe Morrall, six balls in head
and body, either of which would have
been fatal, aged 60; Judge Jones, eight
balls, one in brain, aged 28; Robert Phoenix
, four balls in body, aged 22; Ripley
Johnson, eight balls in body. aged 30;
Mitchell Adams, five balls, one through
brain, aged 35. On this testimony the
jury returned a verdict that the eight men
came to their deaths from gunshot wounds
inflicted by some party or parties unknown
. After the inquest
negroes were
notified that they might remove the bodies
if they desired. The families
of Ripley
Johnson and Mitchell Davis removed
their bodies to their homes, but the other
six remained treated as murderers and
outcasts and there were none to mourc
for them. Neither the whites nor negroes
wanted to remove the bodies.
The town
declines to bury them because they were
killed outside of its limits. but offers to
furnish coffins if the negroes will bury
them. The remaining negroes
declare
they propose to pull up and leave the
country. They assert there will be
retaliation. no
