John Mills, the Mormon Preacherous
HIS FIGHT WITH COL. TURK.
When the Mormons settled in Missouri
in 1833, an enthusiastic young man named
Mills was their most popular and admired
preacher. Indeed so great was his
fame that whenever he held meetings a
crowd of the saints were sure to be present
. Hamid galetesfrozen
on A strong and violent mob of lynchers
was about this time organized to put down
the Mormons, under the command of Col.
Turk- one of the most desperately dangerous
men that Missouri, or in truth, any
other country ever produced. Some of
the Mormons were tarred and feathered,
some were scourged with long, knotty
hickories, till they tainted from the excess
of torture and the loss of blood -- others
were forcibly deprived of their property.
and reduced in a day to the condition of
beggars -- while others still shared a doom
of more mercy and were shot down on the
prairie like so many wolves. At last
Turk resolved to take some of the conceit
out of the young preacher, Mills, and
he gave notice to his men accordingly.ed
It was a dreadfully cold night in midwinter
, 1883, and although the sky was
cloudless, and the full moon shone out in
all her splendor, the earth lay in that pear-
ly radiance, chill and dreary as a frozen
tomb; for a thick she t of snow crusted its
surface, and the north wind howled over it
a dismal dirge. It was a night to drive
even thieves and outlaws into barns and
stables for shelter, and to keep honest
people by the blaze of their own roaring
hearths.
And yet strange to say, in a large log-
cabin, within three hundred yards of the
Missouri River, then frozen from shore to
shore, at least one hundred people nad assembled
to hold a religious meeting. They
were Mormons, you may be sure. No fanatic
of an old faith would have turned
out on such a night; they must be fresh
zealots, with some new idea but at its birth
in their hearts, and flaming like a meteor
imaginations,
in their burg to one or they never could
that. The congregation incinded men
and women in about equal numbers, and
many of the former carried rifles, which
they grasped with one hand, even when
kneeling down in prayer; such was the imminence
of peril either real or imagined
,,
as they deemed pending over them.
The preacher the enthusiast, Mills
had advanced to a thrilling head of his
eloquent discourse, and was painting in
terrible free- language the bitter persecution
which has ever followed the footsteps of
all great reformers since the beginning of
time. Never before had he been half so
animated or half so affecting. His blue
pealed
like
gleamed a star
eye- his
like a trumpet, shrill as the which
whistled over the house top; and his beard-
less lip seemed literally loaded with music
. Groans, tears, and wild shrieks from
the audience, proved the despotic power
of his utterance.
Suddenly, three rifles exploded quick
succession before the door, and three in sen-
" PRINCIPLES
Vol. VI.
tinels, shaking with terror, rushed into the
room, crying out." The mob! the mob!
save yourselves from Colonel Turk's mob!"
No person can t the scene of dismay
and confusion that ensued. The females
screamed aloud, as if all hope had
e men
departed Several of the men sprang out
of the windows and fled, as if pursued by
a legion of devils, while most of those
who remained appeared stupified and totally
powerless, either to escape or make
ready for resistance. Indeed there was
little space allowed for preparation. In a
few minutus a mob amounting to hundreds
had surrounded the building, and the muzzles
of fifty cocked guns and pistols were
thrust in through the doors and windows.
Still none within lifted a finger for defence;
fear seemed to have turned them into stone.
Persecution had not yet hardened the
Latter Day Saints" into veterans, and
the afterwards famous" Mormon Legion"
existed then only in the imagination of the
prophet.
Presently the lynchers, headed by the
all- dreaded and gigantic Colonel Turk,
rushed in, and began to beat the people
furiously with the iron ramrods of their
rifles, with very little distinction of mercy
as to the age or sex. The cries and vain
entreaties of the poor sufferers swelled to
a wail wilder than the howling of the wind
without. At length Colonel Turk roar.
ed-
" Turn out the women and seize the
men, and let us have the hickory switches
and the tar and feathers!"
And the drunken mob shouted, and hastened
to execute the brutal mandate.
Up to this time young Mills had con-
obtinued standing with the Bible of their
prophet in his hand, but unearthly pale
and strangely excited, his lip writhing. his
teeth clenched, and his bright eyes swimming
in a halo of fire. Suddenly he made
a bound for an adjacent window, and notwithstanding
more than twenty endeavored
to seize him, he effected his escape
from the house.
" Chase him -- shoot him- take him,
alive or dead!" cried Turk, in a transport
of rage, setting the example by commencing
the pursuit himself.
The flight of Mills was directed in a
straight line for the river, and his marvel-
agility, added to the start he had first
got, soon placed him at some distance
ahead. They fired both rifles and shotguns
at him as he ran and happily with-
,
out effect When he came to the river-
.
side he stopped down, and hastily fastened
on a pair of skates, which he had carried
in his pocket for the last few days to
be ready for any extraordinary emergency;
and then taking the ice, skinned over the
galetesfrozen stream with the swiftness of the
wind.
pair of skates" shouted
" Ilas nobody a!
Col. Turk, striking his forehead with a
gesture of wrath and vexation.
" I have," answered one of the mob;
" but I shall certainly not try them on the
ice such a night as this."
" Be quick, give them to me!" exclaimed
Turk. in a tone of fiery impatience.
The skates were produced; the eager
Colonel tried them on; and then, swearing
a dreadful oath that he would bring back
the preacher's scalp or leave his own, he
began the perilous chase. Oh! there is no
daring like the courage inspired by the
passion for revenge!
In the meanwhile, Mills had approach-
the farther shore, when he discovered
the startling apparition of armed men on
the bank. He knew at a glance what it
meant. The mob, to prevent any of the
Mornas from escaping, had stationed a
guard beyond the river. He instantly
turned his course down the stream, when
a whole platoon let off their rifles, but the
distance was too considerable. A hail
of bullets rattled around him on the ice
without injury.
" I will foil the fiends yet," he said to
himself, and put forth all his speed. Mills
flew away, when he became conscious that
some one was pursuing him. He slackened
his velocity, and gradually wheeled
about to obtain a view of his enemy. But
the latter was still too remote for an accurate
survey, and the Mormon uttered
aloud a mad prayer-" God grant me that
it be Col. Turk, and I am willing to die!"
On rushed the pursuer- on, still on. like
an avalanche. The noise of his iron
skates coull be heard above the roar of
the northern blæst. and his dark form loomed
in the glittering moonbeams, large in
statue as a giant. As he drew nearer,
the young preacher smiled venomously.
He recognized the arch- persecutor, Col.
Turk, and he laughed outright, a laugh
that rung over the frozen river like the wild
scoff of some demon, when he saw the
other unsheath his gleaming knife. Mills
then immediately pulled his own from its
scabbard, and started off, so as to avoid
the coming shock, which might otherwise
prove fatal, by the mere force of
the collision, to both.
And then began a series of rapid and
cunning evolutions to secure the advantage
in this new method of combat, the
most terrible conceived
ever They mark-
.
ed the smooth surface of the ice with circles
, angles, squares, parallelograms, and
almost every possible figure of plain geometry
; but each seemed a perfect skater,
and could not find the other at fault, or
take him unprepared. They passed
peatedly within three feet of each other re-,
and made quick thrusts which pierced to
the bone! And still the cloud grew more
intense, and the wrathful wind howled on,
while their manoeuvres and flights somehow
carried them farther down the river,
where the cruster ice was thinner, and
cracked fearfully beneath their tread.
Finally the Mormon took the desperate
resolve to terminate the strife by sacrificing
his own life so as to make sure of that of
his foe at the same time In the following
rush, he no longer turned aside to avoid a
direct collision, and frustrated the attempt
of the lyncher to that end by swerving
slightly inwards from a right line.
They met at full speed, and the shock
was like that of the crush of adverse comets
. At the moment of their fall the quaking
ice split beneath their weight, with a
deafening roar, and the wild waters, boiling
and hissing like a hell, swallowed them
forever -- the persecutor and his victim,
both victims now! ered
But the river still rolled on its way to
the sea; the stars all shone as bright and
beautiful as of old in the morning of creation
, when the angels of God chaunted
their birth song; and the wrathful wind of
winter howled on over the icy grave of
enemies no more! -Sunday Times. the
