COLUMBIA, S. C.
Wednesday Morning, January 10, 1878.
A Review of the Recent Ku Klux Trials
-Judge Bond's Charge
Before Judge Bond came here, or
when he first came, we took the ground
that it was not proper to prejudge him.
Although his North Carolina career had
placed him in a very unenviable lighting
before many of our people, yet it was,
nevertheless, proper to observe first his
conduct here before coming to conclusions
adverse to him in his high office as
Judge. Col. MoMaster took the ground
that the juries were packed juries. All
the indications point to this as a positive
fact. It seems to us that even higher
ground may be taken. When we come
to Judge Bond's bias, as exhibited during
the late trials, and to his animus, as
exhibited in his pumping of the witnesses
and his reflections upon South
Carolina, we may say, further, that
Judge Bond himself was substantially
packed. As for Messrs. Corbin and
Chamberlain and their co- counsel, Major
Merrill, they were also substantially
packed. And when we come, lastly, to
the witnesses from York, upon whose
testimony the Government rested, that
they were trained and packed, is also
evident to any observer..who may have
watched the progress of the trials. Thus
we hold that the whole affair was a one-
sided, partial, packed concern, including
even one of the Judges on the bench.
The purpose was to make political matter
, at all hazards, out of Ku Kluxism.
For this purpose, Judge Bond was sent
hither; for this purpose were Messrs.
Corbin and Chamberlain and Major Mer-
rill active and sympathetic. If the prosecution
had a legal ruffian, so had the
bench a ruffian Judge.
If this be treason, make the most of
it; but if it be reason, make the most of
it also. And to think of the Attorney-
General pursuing York Ku Klux when
,
he is himself a worse than York Ka
Klux- a monetary Ku Klux- an official
outlaw, who has done his part in Ku
Klaxing the finances and credit of the
State!
•
But let us now briefly review the Ku
Klux trials and the charge of Judge
Bond. What does the evidence show
when fairly construed? That there was
a local organization is evident that it
was for self- protection is evident- that
it resulted from Scott's arming of the
negro militia, and the general lawlessness
of the Counties involved, is evident-
that Lynch law was executed in some
cases, and that unjustifiable outrages
were also committed, is true. That all
this was wrong, however great the provocation
, we have ever held. But admitting
this, and regretting that any portion
of our people should ever have resorted
to secret societies as a mode of redress
for their grievous wrongs, we yet fail to
Judge
discover
ny good reason for
Bond's pumping of the prisoners, and
for his infamous, unfair charge with
which he wound up his career on the
bench in the recent trials.
We are told that Judge Bond was a
leading member of the Know Nothing
organization of Baltimore. Did he
acquire his tiger- like thirst for Ku Klux
blood in that school when, in the Monumental
City, the foreigner had to under-
go so severe a trial? We are told that he
rose from the position of a Police Judge
to the high Federal Judgeship he now
holds Did he
. acquire in the police
court room the habit of wringing from
frightened prisoners the evidence upon
which to fasten charges, well or ill-
founded, upon absent persons? What
right, we ask, has Judge Bond to question
prisoners not under oath, and make
them submit to a sharp cross- examination
from the bench with the view of
getting them to implicate" prominent
men" and ministers of the Gospel in the
up- country. It was noticeable that
" prominent men" and ministers of the
Gospel were the two classes that Messrs
.
Bond and Corbin- twin ruffians- were
especially keen to get involved in the
meshes of their Ku Klux net.
And here we pause a moment to inquire
of Messrs. Corbin and Merrill as
to the result of their efforts to implicate
certain prominent Carolinians in the Ku
Klux matter
. It will be remembered
that the Columbia Union was all the
time last summer just on the point of
springing a grand mine that was to blow
up certain eminent persons. Was it because
it was thought that such men as
Hampton, er Kershaw, or Butler were
to be found at the head of the Ku Klux
Klan as Grand" Cyclopes" or" Centres?"
And were Major Corbin and Major Mer-
rill disappointed in not being able to
connect Hampton, or Kershaw, or Butler
with the Ku Klux organization? And
did they make in York a strenuous effort
to get those men involved?
But to return to Judge Bond's charge.
What shall be said of this judicial performance
? This may be said with truth,
that Judge Hugh L. Bond speaks with
the voice and spirit of the prosecutor,
although bearing the sceptre and wearing
the mantle of the Judge. Judge
Bond said that murder and rape were
not unfrequent accompaniments of the
raids. That life was taken, and that
outrages were committed, cannot be denied
; but that rape was a frequent ao-
companiment, is not established by the
evidence. Besides there is reason to believe
that much that was represented as
having taken place had existence only
in the fancy of the witnesses. Whatever
outrages were committed, we condemn
them But this is the
point
not
.
now
The. point we now make is, that Judge
Bond's charge is predicated upon the
fact that the men who confessed acknowledged
that they had conspired against the
suffrage. This is really not the case.
He said:
" Yon have pleaded guilty to an indict-
ment which charges you with conspiring
with other men throughout this State,
to intimidate a certain class of voters by
means of threats, beating and even kill-
, because that class of citizens were
opposed to the conspirators in political
opinion,"
We repeat it: This is not according to
the facts.
We learn this fact: Upon the prison-
ers coming before Judge Bond
up
,
seated with a judicial frown upon his
stormy brow, the clerk would put this
question:" A. B., are you guilty of the
charge of conspiracy,& c.," and the
accused would generally reply:" Well, I
was a member of the klan." But except
in the cases of the trained York witnesses
, no political significance was attributed
to the organization. And this,"
we suppose, was very much the case,
and yet all the proceedings of the Government
, and all the charge of Judge
Bond, is based upon the ground that
there had been a conspiracy to deprive the
colored man of the suffrage, which we
boldly by the
esist
was
Baу not
evidence, and did not in faot
Thus, whatever wrongs were done in the
.
name of Ku Kluxism, yet it doth appear
that all the proceedings of the Government
, and all the findings of the juries,
and all the judgments of the court, were
founded upon premises that are false,
and upon facts assumed but not proven.
If murder, burglary, rape or robbery
was established, in no case was a conspiracy
against the suffrage established. This
is the point we make. And we repeat
what we have before said: If this be
treason, make the most of it; but if it be
reason, also make the most of it. Tomorrow
, or the next day, we propose to
give distinctly our views as to Ku Klux-
ism how it should be viewed in origin
and- character.
