ORR, A KANSAS MAN.
The Clarendon( Ark.) Tragedy Recalls
Incidents at Emporia.
John T. Orr, who was murdered at
Clarendon, Ark., at the instigation of his
wife, and whose death was followed by a
wholesale lynching of negroes who were
hired by her to commit the crime, was
a Kansas man.
The sporting fraternity of the state, as
well as those who are interested in such
matters in Kansas City and Denver, will
readily recall the man as" Johnnie Orr."
His career in the sporting world began
footracing For several he
with. years
scooped in the shekels of the unwary citizen
at Fourth of July celebrations and
then took to the road as a trick bicycle
rider. Those were the days of the old
ordinaries, and Orr was the first man in
Kansas who had the temerity to detach
the rear wheel and ride only on the one
big wheel in front. He did a running
mount on this piece of the machine which
was really the marvel of the time. He
became famous and took to riding down.
stairways on the one big wheel, and per
formed other dangerous feats.
Orr was an all- round athlete. He was
a stocky built man and a good boxer.
There are many young men in Emporia
today who recall almost with tears in
their eyes the time they undertook to put
Orr out when he dropped into town one
time. He was victorious over a half
dozen of the local talent in a general me
lee one night in a big room over a grocery
store.
Orr was always popular. When in Kan
sas he was followed by a retinue of young
men who were ready to put him up as a
boxer or footracer. He did a turn at
trick bicycle riding occasionally to get a
dollar, but he quit in disgust when the
safety wheels crowded out his old favorite
, the high machine. Then he took to
the stage. That is to say, he went out
in advance of some company which was
doing the state in a tent, and during this
time married the actress who brought him
to his grave. A Journal reporter has in
his possession a card upon which appears
a small likeness of Orr and a large
amount of illuminated printing proclaiming
the virtues of the show which was
following him on the road.
Dispatches from Clarendon state that
Orr was popular there. He was exceedingly
popular in Kansas. In Emporia he
had hosts of friends and" Little Johnnie
Orr," as he was known about town was
sure of a welcome in that city any time.
The young man lived with his mother
within blocks of the state normal
school there two.
