have been tremendous. The
mobs
senseless are. hours
How quarters, and for two
from all
Two steamers are now on their way from Mr. Corwin electrified the multitude
Europe -- the Europa and the United States. The eloquence. He was at Massillon
ing Tuesday, in council with at
Europa left Liverpool on the 2d, and is now twelve sand people. Here, too, great
out, and may be expected to- day or to- mor- ed their proceedings.
. The United States, which left Southampton
Tennessee.
noon on the 3d, is now eleven days out, and
Our worthy co- laborer, Parson
doing her best, no doubt, to make as good time as the Jonesborough Whis a name
Europa. She has 170 miles more to run than dear to all who appreciate integrity
Cunard boat, and can hardly be expected to forwardness in politics- who
restive at the defeat of Mr. Clay
arrive in advance, if as soon as the Europa.
delphia Convention, for a long
A judicial investigation of the facts attending surrender his preference, has at
late assault upon the Hon. A. H. Stephens sible man and a sterling Whig
resulted in the commitment of Judge F. H Cone hesion to the nomination We
son for his bluff honesty and for
assault with intent to murder."
a charge of" fidelity with which he has consistently
the bail was fixed at$ 10,000, which Mr. ed the Whig cause. The following
gave, and soon after left Atlanta. Mr. tract from a recent letter of his,
Stephens was still doing well at the latest ac- acteristic of his quaint vein:
counts, he has six wounds, and the point of the" You can say to your friends
will go for Taylor and Fillmore by
is supposed to be in his chest broken off five thousand that
,
or ten votes --
a rib. heretofore Democratic, will give
Several years ago. Mr. Ellet, the successful ty -- and last -- though not least,
ty, always democratic, will go for
engineer of the Niagara Suspension Bridge, pro- Fillmore. Very respectfully, your
to the citizens of St. Louis to construct a W. G.
similar bridge across the Mississippi river at
Maine.
place. The possibility of achieving such
The election in Maine took place
undertaking was then doubted, and the mat-
and without much doubt resulted
was dropped; but now that the Niagara of the Loco Foco ticket. We
Bridge has been completed, attention is serious- days since, a letter from the heart
directed to Mr. Ellet's proposition by the peo- which sets forth the true state
prospect ahead, as we think
of St. Louis. the
