LANDIS HAS A SCHEME
TOPREVENTLYNCHING
Says Indiana Should Pass a Law for Dismissal of Sheriff Who
Permits Lynching in His, and Permitting Suits for
Damages to be Paid County by the County Tax Payers.
Washington, July 18 .-( Special.)- Representative
Charles B. Landis of Indiana,
apropos the recent race riot at Evans-
ville, today outlined a new remedy for
lynching, which he thinks will fit the
case. He said:
" The state legislature of Indiana ought
to take the subject up for consideration
and enact a law providing in the first instance
that any sheriff of a county who
permits a lynching in his bailiwick, shall
lose his position instanter and furthermore
shall be held ineligible in the future
as a holder of any office within the
gift of the people of the state, or its governor
or other officers; secondly, this law
should provide that the relatives of the
lynched man or woman should be entitled
to judgment in suit for damages
to be filed for a sum between$ 15,000 and
$ 20,000 ,, to be paid not by the state itself
but by the tax- payers of the county within
which the outrage shall heve occurred
."
" That," continued Mr. Landis," is the
remedy in a nut shell and unless I miss
calculation, I think it would reach the
point my sought. Take the sheriffs generally,
, for instance, they may not actually participate
in or connive at the lynchings
which are occurring in different sections
of the country from time to time, but it
appears to me that they are infatuated
with the excitement of such occasions
and are willing to temporize in the holding
of their prisoners until the time is
ripe for an outbreak upon the part of
citizens when the latter storm the jails
and drag out their victims and string
them up to the nearest tree. The sheriff's
job and his entire future would depend
upon his execution of the law and I am
convinced that he would attend to it.
" On the other hand I think the damage
feature of the law would tend to
force citizens to take a sober minded
view of the case before outraging the
county's prisoners. Take the men who
go to the tax payer's office once a year
and put up their money for the ownership
of their property. They give that
subject full consideration at the time.
No one likes to pay taxes and when the
money is paid every one desires that it be
disbursed in an economincal and judicious
manner. Then before rushing wildly and
fiendishly to the county jail upon a
lynching expedition would not such men
as a matter of course hesitate their
onslaught and think?" in
