WORTHY OF PRAISE.
From the Nashville Banner.
The sheriff of St. Clair County, Ala-
bama, who has successfully defied the
mob and preserved the dignity of the law
at Ashville yesterday is deserving of all
the praise that can be bestowed upon him.
He is the second Alabama sheriff who
has recently taken such courageous action
and it is to be hoped that the example
the two have set will furnish a precedent
that may be universally followed.
There are few occasions on which any
officer of the law who is earnest in the desire
to do his full duty cannot preserve a
prisoner from the hands of a mob. The
saying is no less true than trite that mobs
are cowardly, no matter how brave may
be the individuals that compose them, and
nine times out of ten they will quail at
the resistance of a courageous officer
armed with the authority of the law.
There is no fact better established than
that lynchings do not prevent crime. On
the other hand they increase it because of
the publicity advertisement they give
the criminal, and of the mawkish sentiment
and desire for notoriety they engender in
the minds of the criminally weak, of the
familiarity with deeds of violence they
produce, and above all the contempt into
which they bring the law and its representatives
. The white people of the South
properly insist on making and administering
their own laws, but they stultify
themselves when by their own hands these
laws are overthrown and trampled under
foot.
The oft- occurring lynchings in the South
are giving this section a most unenviable
reputation the world over. It is not only
the news of the lynching that goes abroad
but that of the crime that caused the
lynching and the impression is thus created
that the South is a lawless region in
which innocence is in continued jeopardy
and life without value. The incalculablé
injury that comes of such advertisement
can be very readily understood by all
clear- headed men and should be generally
deplored by the right- minded.
There must be an end of lynchings and
lawlessness in the South, and the two Ala-
bama sheriffs who have done their full
duty in this respect are the kind of men
who should be entrusted with the
ment of the law enforce
