Jackson, Miss., June 28.( Special.)
John Hartfield, the Jones county negro
who kept a young white girl in the woods
all night two weeks ago, outraging her
repeatedly, it is said, has paid the penalty
all such brutes will pay in Missis-
sippi. Since this infamous affair became
known, thousands of men, black as
well as white, have been scouring the
woods in three or four counties for the
fiend, and they got him Thursday after
noon.
It has been known all along that the
brute would be lynched if caught alive,
no secret being made of this intention,
and when his capture was reported here
Governor Bilbo was asked what he was
going to do to prevent it, replying:
it. We
" I am powerless to prevent
have guns for state militia, but no men.
It is impossible to send troops to the
scene for the obvious reason that we
have no troops.
" Several days ago, anticipating trouble
of this kind in the event of the capture
of the negro, I discussed the matter with
Adjutant General Scales, and he agreed
with me that nothing could be done, insofar
as furnishing troops are concerned,
and that if the sheriff and civil authori-
ties cannot prevent a lynching it cannot
be prevented.
" As the public is well aware, this manhunt
has been in progress since June 15.
Thousands have joined in it, excitement
is at fever heat, and any attempt to
frustrate a lynching would unquestion-
ably result in hundreds being killed.
" By the way," said the governor of
Mississippi," it has occurred to me that
if the people of Mississippi elect Longino
as their governor, the family of John
Hartfield can then draw a pension from
the state, and thus the majesty of the
law will be vindicated."
That last paragraph is some political
play, will cost Longino, candidate
for governor and, many a vote. Governor
Bilbo has thrown a little pep into the
will have effect from
campaign that
Yellow Rabbit to Vinegar Bend. Governor
Longino has already been called
upon to defend himself on this score, and
it has cost him thousands of votes, it is
said. When he was governor 18 or 20
years ago, he is said to have- sent a message
to the legislature suggesting that
the county in which a lynching occurred
should pay the family of the man lynched
$ 5000 damages, and that such lynching
should be an ouster for the sheriff of the
county. Of course, no such bill could
ever pass a Mississippi legislature, but
the recommendation was made, and the
record is one that will not down. Those
candidates opposing Longino have used
that message for all is worth, and now
fuel has been added it to the flame.
