COURT OF INQUIRY
TO INVESTIGATE
Huntsville Soldiers Must Answer
for Conduct
WILL CONVENE SEPTEMBER 19
Birmingham Military Company Is Sent
to Huntsville Only After Conference
With Judge
Speake. Paul
BY HERVEY W. LAIRD.
Montgomery, September 16 .-( Special.)-
Acting Governor Cunningham has ordered
Capt. Lucian C. Brown of Company
K, Third regiment, Alabama National
Guard, with his company and a detachment
from Company G of the same command
, to proceed to Huntsville at once
and prevent the rescue of any men who
may be indicted and arrested as members
of the mob which lynched Horace
Maples on the night of September 7, these
soldiers are from Birmingham, and left
that city at noon today for the destination
indicated.
The governor has ordered a court of inquiry
to assemble and investigate the part
taken by the military on the night of the
lynching of Maples. This court will be
composed of Col. T. S. Frazer of Union
Springs, member of the governor's staff,
Capt. Edward D. Smith, commanding the
Brandon Light Artillery, Birmingham,
and Capt. W. J. Vaiden, commanding
company L, First regiment at Uniontown.
Ever since the announcement on yesterday
that certain citizens of Huntsville
had been indicted as participants in the
lynching of Horace Maples on the night
of September 7, Acting Governor Cunning-
ham has been in communication with
Judge Paul Speake, out of whose court
the indictments were returned. It very
soon developed, as a result of these consultations
that there was a possibility of
attempts being made to rescue men arrested
and sent to jail on these charges
and the governor and Judge Speake both
agreed that it would be well to have an
adequate military force at hand to prevent
anything like this if it should be-
attempted.
Having made up his mind to send the
soldiers to Huntsville the governor telephoned
Capt. L. C, Brown of Company
K, Birmingham, early this morning, notifying
him to get his men together, with
a detachment from Company G at the
same city, and be prepared to move at
once. Captain Brown was not informed at
the beginning where he was expected to
go. In a very short time the governor
received word from Birmingham that
Captain Brown and forces were ready
to move with 60 men his.
Report to Speake.
The military commander was instructed
to report to the Hon. Paul Speake, judge
of the Sixteenth circuit. The understanding
is that the soldiers are to serve as
guards to prevent the rescue of any of
the men indicted, arrested and confined
in jail, and to preserve order and perform
other such duties as might be expected
of them under such circumstances.
The authority for the court of inquiry is
found in section 3 of an act" to amend
sections 2, 12 and 15 of an act entitled an
act to regulate the volunteer military
forces of the state of Alabama, approved
February 23, 1899, and to add thereto sections
30, 31 and 32," approved September
30, 1903.
The Military Court.
Col. T. S. Frazer, selected as president
of the court, is a resident of Union Springs
and a well- known attorney. He is at present
a member of the state senate, and
has held a number of important civil
places. His military position is that of
colonel on the governor's staff, and he
is fully informed as to the duties which
will be required of him.
Capt. Edward D. Smith will be the
young man of the court. He is only a
few years past his majority, yet is regarded
as one of the most promising
young lawyers of the state. He holds the
responsible position of city attorney of
Birmingham, and has made a great success
as captain of the Brandon Light artillery
.
Capt. W. J. Vaiden is probably the most
widely experienced military man selected.
He was in command of a company in the
Spanish- American war, serving later in
the regular army in the Philippines, and
performed his duties so well as to be
specially mentioned on several occasions
by the commanding officer of the army in
the orient. He has actively engaged in the
Alabama National Guard for several years
and has added much to its excellence
and efficiency.
The instructions of the governor to the
court of inquiry are that it" ascertain and
report the facts together with their recommendations
, in reference to the conduct
of the officers and men composing Company
F. Third regiment, Alabama National
Guard, on the occasion of the attack
upon the jail by a mob, which resulted
in the killing of Horace Maples at
Huntsville on the night of the 7th inst.
Such court will convene at Huntsville on
Monday, the 19th inst .. and enter upon
the discharge of its duties."
This order was promulgated in the regular
way, issuing from the office of the
adjutant general, by command of the governor
.
Hay Has Reported.
It is a significant fact that the governor
has ordered the court of inquiry in the
face of the fact that Captain Hay who
was in command of the military at the
time the negro was lynched, has sent in a
report of his connection with the trouble.
This came to the office of the governor
this afternoon but was not made public.
It is also a fact that the report of Sheriff
Rogers in the same connection, received
a few days ago, has also not been made
public. When asked today if he would
not give out the gist of the reports from
these two officials Acting Governor Cun-
ningham replied that he could not. Neither
would he say why he could not.
It should be remembered that Captain
Hay and his men under the orders of
the sheriff by direct command of the
governor, who stipulated when they were
called out, that this was to be the case.
This order reached the captain, however,
after they had reported to the sheriff for
duty. Notwithstanding he has ordered
an Investigation of the actions of the
soldiers Governor Cunningham said this
afternoon that he hoped the public
( Continued on Second Page) would
