SEVEN NEGROES LYNCHED BY
AN EXCITED MOB.
The result of Frequent Murders, Thefts
and Fights- Whites Claim Negroes
Had Formed a Plot.
TEXARKANA, Ark., March 23 .-- A
race war is on in Little Riven county,
and during the past forty- eight hours
a number of negroes have met their
death at the hands of an infuriated
white population. Seven are known
to have been lynched, shot to death
or slain in some manner, and the work
is not yet done.
ae bodies of the victims of the vengeance
of the mob are hanging to the
limbs of trees in various parts of the
country, strung up wherever they were
taken, while that of another who was
shot to death while trying to escape
was thrown into a creek and left there.
The country is in a state of intense
excitement. White men are collecting
in mobs, heavily armed and determined
: negroes are fleeing for their lives
and the community is in an uproar.
The exact number of negroes who
have been summarily dealt with or
those who may yet fall into the hands
of the mob before order. is restored
may never be known. Seven bodies
have been found and other victims are
being hunted and will meet the same
fate when run to earth.
Little River county is in the extreme
southwest corner of the state, bordered
on the west by the Indian territory,
and on the south by Texas. The negro
population is large and has for a long
time proved troublesome to the whites.
Frequent murders have occurred and
thefts and fights have become common
affairs. One or two negroes had previously
been severely dealt with when
the people found it necessary to take
the law into their own hands, but it
was not until Tuesday that the trouble
tock on a serious aspect. It then
developed that carefully laid plans had
been made by a number of negroes to
precipitate a race war and that many
white men had been marked for victims
. It is learned that twenty- three
negroes were implicated in this plot,
and the whites are now bent on meting
out summary punishment to the entire
coterie of conspirators. All implicated
in the plot are known, and small parties
of white men, varying in number from
twenty- five to fifty are scouring the
country for them
GOOD. FRIDAY.
