Chattanooga at the Bar.
Twenty- four of Chattanooga's alleged
lynchers will have an unsought opportunity
to explain their conduct to the
nine justices of the United States supreme
court in October next. They
have been cited to appear because they,
it is charged, lynched Ed. Johnson, a
negro, who had been granted a writ of
habeas corpus by Justice Harlan. The
afternoon papers of Chattanooga published
news of the granting of the writ,
and at night of that day a mob of
seventy- five appeared at the jail, and
took therefrom Johnson, and hung hin.life
The supreme court is not in the habit
of having its writs spurned in that
manner.
It is currently stated in Chattanooga
that the mob hung an innocent man,
but the question of guilt or innocence
does not into the present phase
af the case enter. The issue of next October
is one that relates to the dignity and
power of the United States supreme
court. If its writs are to be superseded
by Judge Lynch whenever and wherever
he happens to sit, then the United
States supreme court is not a great
court after all. The federal constitution
becomes a delusion, and Judge
Lynch stands supreme.
Although the sheriff of Hamilton
county, Tennessee, knew that Johnson
had been granted a writ of habeas corpus
and that the rabble in Chattanooga
would be incensed thereat, yet he took
no precautions whatever for guarding
the jail on the one critical night." The
supreme court," says Sheriff Shipp," is
responsible for that lynching." This
is the issue, and the trouble is, the
supreme court of the United States is
to try that issue, and it may hold itself
blameless, on the ground that the mob
in question had something to do with
it, and that the sheriff should have
guarded well the jail on the particular
night. On October 15 Sheriff will have
a full opportunity to explain his official
action at the jail on the night of
March 19, when he left the jail protected
by one man only. One man can
not defend a jail against mob that
comes thirsting for blood. a
