ALL SEEMS WELL
IN HUNTSVILLE
Governor Receives Reports from
the Officers
THE MEETING AT ANNISTON
Speakers at Commercial and Industrial
Association Meeting Are All Well
Informed, and Much Good
Promises to Result.
Montgomery, September 16 .-( Special.)-
Capt. L. C. Brown, in command of the
military forces on duty at Huntsville,
reported to Acting Governor Cunningham
today over the long distance telephone
that one more man had been arrested,
making two charged with taking part
with the mob which lynched Horace Maples
on the night of September 7. Captain
Brown also reported that everything
was quiet and had been through the
night, and that the people were showing
no disposition to interfere with the duties
of his men in any way.
All things considered the governor is
pleased with the situation at Huntsville
today. He is sorry, of course, that he
has found it necessary to send troops
there, but finds cause for gratification in
the evident intention of the citizens of the
county to aid the officers of the court in
every way possible to bring any who may
be guilty of outraging the laws of the
state to justice.
Col. T. S. Frazer of Union Springs, who
is to be president, and Capt. E. D. Smith
of Birmingham, who is to be a member of
the military court of inquiry, ordered
by the governor to investigate the actions
of the military at the time the mob
took Maples from the officials at Hunts-
ville and hung him, have notified the
executive office of their acceptance, and
readiness to perform the service required
of them.
Nothing had been neard in a definite
way from Capt. W. J. Vaiden of Union-
town, the third member of the court, up
to a late hour this afternoon. It is hoped
that he will find it no inconvenience to
perform the service, though it is known
that he is suffering from an accident to
one of his feet which befell him several
days ago.
Nothing of an official nature has been
reported to the executive office concerning
the attempt on the life of Miss Rob-
erts at Anniston, reported in the papers
of the day. The crime is one of the
most brutal in the history of the state
and that indignation prevails is no surprise
. Several gentle of the capitol
talked of the attack today and expressed
great regret at the commission of such an
atrocious act, especially when the feel-
ings of the state are at the excitable
point any way. The governor expressed
the greatest regret and trusts there will
be no delay in bringing to justice
guilty party or parties. the
