THE GLOVERS ARE
SAFE IN PRISON
Are Charged With the Murder
of Fred Hollis
MOB IS OVER- PERSUADED
Father of Murdered Man Wants Fair
Trial of Prisoners In the Courts,
Wrong Impression- Notes
and Personals.
Selma, May 25 .-( Special.)- Safe in the
Dallas county jail are Primus Glover and
his son, Ed Glover, charged with the murder
of Fred R. Hollis, the prominent
young man shot Wednesday morning near
Thomaston. Primus Glover was brought
to the jail in Selma Wednesday evening,
having been hurried away from the scene
of the shooting by Sheriff Grant and E.
C. Coates, citizens deputized by the sheriff
to assist him. The old man did not
fire the shot that killed young Hollis,
that having been done by Ed Glover. He
did, it is said, shoot at Webster McNell,
one of the young men with Hollis.
Ed Glover who had been hunted by a
determined posse since two hours after
the shooting Wednesday morning, was
landed in the Dallas county jail Saturday
morning about 2 o'clock, having been
brought here on the Mobile train over
the Southern by Sheriff Grant and Mr.
E. S. Farrish. That the negro was not
summarily dealt with is due to the cool-
ness of Mr. Farrish and his determination
to keep his word to the negroes
that assisted in the capture of the fugl-
tive and gave him up to Mr. Farrish, only
upon his promise that he would turn
him over to the law and not to a mob.
Glover was found in a cabin about two
and a half miles from where the shooting
occurred, the cabin being located on the
Gayle place, near Consul, where Mr. Far-
rish lives. The negro was filled with
bird shot from his ankles to the top of
his head, on one side of the body, the
most of the load, however, entering the
face and shoulder.
These shots were
from the gun of young McNell. The
wounds are not serious, though painful.
Upon the negro being turned over to Mr.
Farrish and the latter's brother- in- law,
J. D. Spencer, they started with him
for Catherine, to take the train to Selma.
They had gone only about three miles
when they ran full into a posse of fifty
persons looking for the negro, Mr. Far-
rish, who is a favorite in that section
of the country, insisted to the crowd
that the negro be not harmed, that he had
given his word to the negroes that he
would turn Glover over to the law for
punishment, and not to a mob and the
crowd with considerable reluctance, allowed
the negro to go unharmed. Sheriff
Grant reached Mr. Farrish later and they
succeeded in landing him safely the
Selma jail. in
A Wrong Impression.
Mr. Farrish when seen Saturday stated
that the impression that became current
that the young men deserted Fred Hollis
when he was shot, was entirely erroneous,
that both McNell and C. K. Hollis displayed
wonderful coolness and despite
the rearing and pitching of their horses
an with both of the negroes shooting at
them they returned the fire with the
effect that Ed Glover was wounded and
prevented his escape.
J. P. Hollis, father of the young man
I who Glover
was shot when apprised that
,
had been captured, expressed the hope
that the law would be allowed to take
its course, and that no mob would lynch
him. This was responsible
in a great
measure for the safe landing of the negro
in jail.
Mr. Farrish's friends, and he has a
large circle in Selma. congratulated him
yesterday upon his conduct in the whole
affair, and especially his determination
to keep his word, even if it was only
to the negroes on the place, at all hazards
. There was no reward offered, nor
wold any have been accepted by Mr.
Farrish. He was, perhaps, as warm a
personal friend as the dead young man
had, and was one of the most earnest
and zealous in effort to bring his
slayer to punishment the.
