Car Is Burned and Fight With
Pistols Follows Clash
With Strikers
DC
LITTLE GIRL RUN OVER
BY CAR AND KILLED
Motorman Escapes Death By Running
His Car Away From Mob- Arbitrators
Are Trying to Effect
Settlement of Strike.
Cleveland, O., May 19.- Rioting became,
more general and serious in the street
railway strike late today. The first death,
while not a part of the strike, but incident
to it, occurred when Yetta Wolin-
ski, 4 years old, was run over by a car
operated by an inexperienced motorman.
A crowd quickly gathered and would have
lynched the motorman had he not turned
on full speed and escaped.
In Lakewood a car was stopped and
the crew fired upon. Four persons were
shot and seriously injured and the car
was burned to the trucks.
The first disturbance in the downtown
section also took place after dark, when
a Woodland car was held up on Ontario
street and the motorman and conductor
attacked. The police dispersed the rioters.
Serious Riot.
The burning of a Clifton boulevard car
in Lakewood was the most serious riot
of the strike. The car was going toward
the western terminal when it was stopped
by a log being thrown across the track.
It was the first effort to operate a car
m Lakewood and the car carried no
passengers. As soon as the car stopped
it was surrounded by a crowd of rioters,
who were hidden behind a railway bridge.
Immediately the crowd began shooting at
the members of the crew and guards.
The latter, W. J. James and John Swanto,
returned the fire.
Over 30 shots were exchanged. While
the shooting was in progress the crowd
grew to nearly a thousand. Another car
arrived and its crew and guards joined
in the free- for- all fight.
Gasoline was poured upon the second
car and it was burned to the trucks. The
Cleveland police were notified and 60 officers
were sent to the rescue. The first
car, riddled with bullets and windows
broken, proceeded to the car barn.
Motorman P. C. Elsholz was shot in the
leg, John Gray and George Alexander,
guards on the second car, were shot in
the chest. Mace Burlingame, of the attacking
crowd, was shot in the hand. All
were taken to a hospital. Their condition
is serious.
Little Girl's Death.
Yetta Wolinski was killed by a Woodland
avenue car while attempting to cross
the street. Her death was said to be
due to the inexperienced motorman being
unable to control the car. After the
accident he speeded the car several
blocks ahead, where the police were notified
. The conductor sought refuge in a
nearby drug store. The crowd attempted
to reach him, while others attempted
to catch the fleeing car and assault the
motorman. The police arrived just in
time to save the conductor, while the
mob was yelling," Lynch him, lynch
him!" The little girl's head had been
several from her body. By mistake two
morgue- keepers had been called. When
their dead wagons arrived one took the
girl's head and the other her body. The
frantic parents of the girl, excitedly trying
to obtain possession of the severed
parts of the body, inflamed the mob's
spirit, but the police prevented serious
trouble.
The state arbitrators took up their task
of endeavoring to effect a reconciliation
between the strikers and the Municipal
Traction company tonight.
President Dupont of the Traction
company said today that he would take
the strikers back to work only as" new
men," and those who remained with the
company would be given preference.
Vice President Behner of the union positively
declined to waive this point. The
state arbitrators now are endeavoring to
have this single objectionable
removed. point
