MOB LAW IN THE NORTH.
The New York Journal of Commerce says:
Had the lynching of the Reno brothers and
other persons said to have been members of
the railroad banditti which have so long infested
Southern Indiana occurred in any Southern
semi- reconstructed State, the outrage would
have been attributed by Radical papers to the
inextinguishable barbarism and ferocity of the
native Southerner. Congress would have been
petitioned to pass a law for the extirpation of
the Kukluxes, who are supposed by a Radical
faction to have the monopoly of lynch law in
the South. But the terrible deed at New Al-
bany last Friday night was done in a Northern
State, a thoroughly Republican State, the home
of the Vice President elect, a State which is able
to take care of itself, and which would fiercely
resent any meddling by Congress in its local
affairs. We find in no Radical paper any hint
that this monstrous assumption of the right to
dispense with judge and jury, and to punish by
death cowed and helpless prisoners of the State
who have incurred the hatred of a crazy mob,
is any blotch upon the fair fame of Indiana as
a State, or proves the savage instincts which
underlie the smooth, civilized skins of her citizens
. The majesty of the United States Government
was spit upon and defied by these
lynchers; for the Renos and their comrade An-
derson, murdered on Friday last, were surrendered
by the Canadian authorities to the United
States on the solemn pledge of our national
representatives that the men should have a fair
trial, and, if found innocent, should be returned
to Canada. But no Radical paper advises our
Government to hunt down and punish this gang
of lynchers, or to put Southern Indiana under
martial law! One paper of this city, which
devotes several columns a week( though there
has been a let- up in that department since the
Presidential election) to withering denunciations
of the Kukluxes, makes the New Albany
butcheries the subject of a tame paragraph in
Monday's issue- calling the" state of affairs at
Seymour. Ind .."" deplorable," and the lynching
as" a lamentable, but very natural occur.
rence," and regarding vigilance committees as
the natural order of events in a certain
state of society." The moral of its delicately
phrased article is not that the Indiana lynchers
must be put down by shot and steel, but-" enforce
your laws and purity your corrupt courts.'
" Many communities outside of Indiana") mean-
sucing New York among the rest, we suppose)
are invited to ponder this lesson. Such is the
flippant spirit in which the most solemn public
questions are treated by journals pretending
to have serious convictions and principles,
when their political sympathies require them
to apologize for crimes committed in one part
of the country which they would punish with
an iron, merciless hand, if committed in
er section. anoth-
