CONVICTS LYNCH
NEGRO IN PRISON
Had Maltreated Aged Woman
, Prisoners' Friend
ALL ARE SILENCED
Sinister Threat" The First Man Who
Squeals Is the Next Man Hung"
Closes All Mouths- Guard
Imprisoned
Rawlins, Wyo., October 2.- Details of the
lynching of Frank Wigfall, the negro assailant
of Mrs. Esther,( Granny) Higgins,
known as the" Prisoner's Friend" by the
convicts of the state penitentiary here to
day while Sheriff Mills at the county jail
was holding off a party of would- be citi-
zen lynchers, may never be known.
The sinister threat," the first man who
squeals is the next man hung," silenced
all the convicts and prison guards examined
by a coroner's jury today. The
jury gave up the task late this afternoon
without learning anything.
Wigfall was placed in the county jail
late yesterday for safe keeping after his
capture at Fort Steele. When the mob
surged about the jail early this morning,
the sheriff probably ably saved saved the the prisoner's
life by slipping him out unseen and rushing
him to the penitentiary near by. Wig-
fall was placed in a cell which soon after
prisoners, marching to breakfast, had to
pass. As they filed by the negro made
slighting remarks of his crime.
Many of the prisoners remembered acts
of kindness of" Granny" Higgins and the
negro's remarks brought their anger to
a pitch that soon resulted in his death.
With th mob of citizens at the jail still
clamoring for the negro, about 100 of the
prisoners broke loose immediately after
breakfast and made a dash for the negro
who also had been taken to breakfast.
The guard was overpowered before
could thrust the negro into a cell and he
himself locked in the cell by the infuriated
convicts.
One of the convicts produced a rope
and while the others held the negro he
tossed a half hitch over the negro's
head and made the other end fast to the
balcony rail of the cell house. The negro
was tossed over the rail and the convicts
marched back to their work.
Not until the cries of the imprisoned
guard brought other guards was the
lynching known to any except to those
who took part in it.
Sunday night Gigfall broke into Mrs.
Higgins' house, chopping down a door
with an axe. About dawn Monday he
left her in a pitiful condition. A few
hours later she crawled to a neighbor's
house and told what had happened.
Posses searched the hills all Monday night
for the aged woman's assailant. Late last
night he was captured in exhausted
condition by a justice of the an peace.
