see no evil in it whatever.
LYNCHING IN THE SOUTH.
" The greatest affliction we have to suffer
is the lack of trial by jury when accused
of crime. Lynching of negroes is growing
to be a Southern pastime. When reproved
for their barbarity they say," The only way
to stop lynching is to stop the crime which
leads to lynching.' Many Northern people
are influenced by this cry, and talk about
lynching as if it were always for crimes
against women. Even some colored people up
here have fallen into this error. Let me
give you some facts to set you right about
this. Since Jan. 1, 1892, 1.226 people have
been lynched in this country, principally
negroes. Not one third of these persons
were accusesd of assaulting women. In 1832
out of 241 lynched only 46 had such charges
against them. The following year out of
159, but 39 were charged with such an offense
, and in succeeding years, up to the
present time, the majority of the unfortunates
were not charged with crimes against
women. In the face of the actual figures
who will say that we can stop lynching by
stopping one crime? The very next day aft
er Sam Hose was roasted and his charred
remains divided among the white savages
of Georgia as souvenirs, a negro, Willis
Sees, was hung at Osceola, Ark., on suspicion
of barn burning. In 1894 ten negroes
were lynched in the South for barn burning,
and three colored women were lynched during
the same year. One year ago yesterday,
in the town of Doyville, La., a man named
Will Steak was burned alive on the charge
of assaulting a Mrs. Parish. The New Or-
leans Times- Democrat, in its account of the
affair, said Mrs. Parish identified the
negro, almost positively.' He died protesting
his innocence, but because he had been
' almost identified' he was made to suffer
a horrible death. William Offet, of Elyria,
O., was more fortunate, because he was in
a Northern State. Being identified by Mrs.
J. C. Underwood, the wife of a minister, he
was sent to prison for fifteen years. When
he had served four years of his time the
conscience of the' respectable white lady'
became smitten, and she confessed to her
husband that she was equally guilty with
the negro. The husband had the prisoner
pardoned and divorced his depraved wife.
There are many such cases. Again, white
men often black themselves and commit
crimes, and then lead a n: ob to lynch some
negro who may happen to be around. In
Atlanta, Ga., four years ago, a clack man
was discovered in the room of a
white girl of high standing. While attempt- young
