SENATOR M'CORMICK
DENOUNCES LYNCHING
FROM SENATE FLOOR
( By Associated Negro Press)
Washington, D. C., Mar. 31.- In a
recent speech in the Senate on the
Egyptian situation, Senator McCor-
mick of Illinois said:" Mr. President,
there is another authority who might
be consulted while the debate turns
upon Egyptian right to liberty. In
the third verse of the seventh chapter
of Matthew it is written,' Why behold
est thou the mote that is in thy brother's
eye, but considerest not the beam
that is in thine own eye?'
" It is true that the net result of
British government in Egypt has been
the material development of the country
to the neglect of the education of
the people and their political advantage
. But, Mr. President, if we are
not to guarantee the government of
Egypt, it is hardly a matter for our
intervention. It would become us to
inquire if in some measure we have
not been responsible for a like neglect
of some dark people with whose welfare
we are charged under the constitution
of the United States. My friend
the senator from Oklahoma, Mr.
Owen, speaks of the imposition or the
withdrawal of the protectorate in
Egypt as an assumption of right on
the part of the British, a right which
does not exist. I cannot quarrel with
him on that ground; hat while we discuss
the course of the British government
in that regard, I think we might
inquire of our own conscience if we
have done all that duty requires of
us in regard to some 10,000,000 of people
living under the constitution of
the Union.
" It is written in the constitution of
the Republic that no citizen shall be
disfranchised by reason of his color;
it is written that if there be any general
disfranchisement, there shall be
a diminution of the represenattion of
the states effecting the disfranchisement
. But these provisions
of the
constitution are as dense as the liber
of Egypt. But, putting aside the question
of political rights, consider that
the country, north and south, during
the last year has witnessed disgrace-
ful mob murders. There have been
four- score lynchings in the Union during
the twelve months last passed.
My own state of Illinois has been the
scene of violence on as great a seale
as that in any other state in the Union
during the last year.
" As we sit in judgment upon others
, so let us judge of our own duty.
It does not become us to speak only
of the dereliction of other people. If
this senate is to consider resolves
upon the state of the people of Egypt,
let it make ready to resolve against
mob murder and lynching in
ica." Amer-
