LYNCH LAW MUST GO!
We as Americans boast of our wealth, civilization,
Christianity and citizenship, and believe within ourselves
that we live on a continent which is a garden spot of the
world, and where all the flowers are fragrant and no
wrong can come, and that the human flowers in this great
garden are thoroughly civilized Christians, who stand
ready to stamp out all evils, expand the chance for education
, build great churches, spend millions for the maintenance
of colleges, universities and seminaries, and decry
the great morals of certain groups or creeds who are in a
class to themselves so far as red- blooded Americans and
worthy citizenship is concerned.
We speak boastingly of the STARS AND STRIPES,
THE LAND OF THE FREE AND THE HOME OF THE
BRAVE; this, of course, is true in part. We shall always
speak with reverence and patriotism of the colors of the
flag, but can we justly say that this is a LAND of the
FREE when men in certain portions of the land dare not
exercise their civil rights without becoming victims of
moral cowards who come by night with the whip, rope,
torch and oil can and spirit men and women away and
make sport of taking their life's blood, the blood of
Americans which has stained the pages of American history
, playing the full role of BARBARIANS AND MORAL
COWARDS? We stand for loyalty, true patriotism,
equal civic rights to all men, protection of life and property
, the stamping out of all evils and obedience of the
law of the land. We love our national anthem, but we
will have to secure a new one unless the GOOD CITIZENS
OF AMERICA push the SLOGAN to the fore that
LYNCH LAW MUST GO.
It seems to be a common thing to read in the daily
PRESS OF A LYNCHING PARTY down in DIXIE;
in fact there seems to be a certain element that enjoys this
kind of news. It seems but yesterday that we learned
of four Negroes being lynched in Kirwin, Texas. While
it may be true that all of these Negroes were guilty of
the crime, it is equally possible that some, or all of them,
could have been innocent. This question, of course,
should have been left for the courts of Texas to decide.
If Night Riders, White Cappers, Lynching Parties
and lawbreaking Pirates are going to be permitted to continue
to take the law in their own hands, which serves the
same purpose to them as a Bear Hunt or a Fish Fry to the
sportman, there is no use in paying taxes to maintain
jails, state and county officers, lawmakers and courthouses
.
The practice of lynching was established many years
ago by the REACTIONARIES of the Southland. During
this time the Northern press spoke in defense of the Negro
and his treatment in the South, but finally Southerners
migrated northward and became owners of the press
Thus
and were engaged in many pursuits of commerce.
situated they invited race hatred until lynching became
a national practice in all the states. Now it has become
so prevalent that Congress has before it a vital bill of importance
as it affects the Negro race. This bill is known
as the Dyer Bill and, thank God, it has passed the House,
and may we all pray that it will meet the approval of the
Senate and become a law.
It is a simple thing to speak in a destructive way of
any and all evils, but some constructive method should
be set forth as a remedy for the cause.
Mexico is not alone when we speak of civilization,
needing more education and Christianity. We need it
here in America. We need to learn more about the value
of human life, the laws of God and man and the principles
of true citizenship.
In all communities we need to learn about ECONOMIC
CONDITIONS, HIGH IDEALS and the living on a
higher plane. The Negro is not alone in this discriminatory
process. The Jew has been massacred and depressed
. The sigma has as its target today the German, Sicil-
ian, Italian, Turk, Polander and Chinaman, who are all
up for discrimination, but when it comes to lynching there
is little said or done, for some one stands in fear of another
flag, the time bomb and stick of dynamite. In the past
there has been a" mind- your- business' lesson to all LAWBREAKING
LYNCHERS.
We hope the day will soon come when it will be a rare
thing to learn of a lynching in this great land of America.
The Black Press, the Black Race and the other Red
Blooded AMERICAN CITIZENS stand as a unit
and say, THAT LYNCH LAW MUST should GO.
