MOST HORRIBLE PUNISHMENT.
Three Florida Negroes Flayed Alive and
Then Burned for a Fiendish Crime.
ELLAVILLE, Fla., May 20.- Three
negroes were lynched Saturday night in
a dense swamp on the Suanee river by
white men for assaulting a white girl.
It is reported that they were flayed
alive and then burned, after being subjected
to frightful tortures. The crime
for which the negroes were so horribly
put to death was one of the most terrible
in the history of this section of
Florida. The scene of the crime and
retribution was in Lafayette, the adjoining
county to Madison on the
south.
Miss Mamie Armstrong, the beautiful
daughter of a prominent Lafayette
county farmer, left her home five days
ago to spend the night with a neighbor
who lived 2 miles distant. The next
day Miss Armstrong's father went to
the house to bring her home and was
alarmed to hear that nothing had been
seen of her. Mr. Armstrong alarmed
the neighbors and a search was made.
The woods were scoured and the
Suanee river dragged. Finally, about
midway between the home of Mr.
Armstrong and the neighbor's house
the handkerchief of the girl was found
clinging to a bush, and all around
were evidences of a desperate struggle.
The searchers followed the trail thus
indicated, finding that the girl had
been dragged into the woods. After
proceeding for a mile the corpse of Miss
Armstrong was found in a thick clump
of bushes. The body of the girl was in
a horrible condition. Every shred of
clothing had been torn from it and she
had been assaulted. The lower limbs
had been torn apart, her head crushed
and her throat cut. It was evident
that the girl had made a desperate
night, for under her nails were found
pieces of black cuticle, which she had
torn from her assailants.
Echols was
suspected and
Sam
threatened with instant death unless
he confessed. He did so, and impli-
eated Sim Crowley and John Brooks.
Echols said they kept the girl for
twenty- four hours before killing her,
forcing her in the meanwhile to submit
to the most horrible indignities.
The greater part of the time, the negro
said, Miss Armstrong was unconscious
.
Having secured the negroes implicated
by Echols, the white men proceed-
ed with the three fiends to a dense
swamp on the Suanee river, where they
were made to suffer torture similar to
that they had inflicted on the girl. The
white people are terribly aroused and
they will exterminate the ne.
swear groes if these outrages are continued.
