The Lynching Commission.
Senator Medill McCormick of Illinois has introduced a bill in
Congress providing for a" Commission on Lynching." Those who
are to compose the membership of this Commission are to be ap-
pointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate.
Specific task of this body is clearly defined in Section 5 of the Bill:
" The Commission shall conduct a general inquiry into the sub-
ject of mob violence and lynching in the United States. It shall in-
clude the number of lynchings which have taken place within the
past twenty years and the causes thereof. It shall also consider and
report its conclusions in respect to the adequacy of the means now
employed for the prevention of mob violence and lynching and the
remedies available for their avoidance." Another significant feature
of the McCormick Commission is the fact that it will be endowed
with power to summon whomsoever it may choose to testify on the
subject of lynching.
It is almost a dead certainty that this bill will unanimously pass
both houses in Congress. Senator McCormick like many other
thinking men of the white race is beginning to realize that the lynching
evil and kindred crimes are developing the most serious problems
of the age. Perpetrators of this crime have almost invariably gone
unpunished. As a result a natural contempt for all law has been
inspired. This is especially true when the statutes do not suit their
fancy and immediate convenience. The conduct of the South during
the late war is a striking example of the growth of a disregard for
Federal Statutes. In certain districts the draft boards refused to
function. Needless millions were necessitated to carry on persuasive
propaganda. And yet hundreds of lives of Federal agents had to
be sacrificed in order to command a fair respect for the draft law.
The gravity of the lynching evil is rendered more serious by the
attitude of the American black man. He has been denied the protection
of life. His accumulations are not secured. In fact, he has
been deprived of all the commendable objects of pursuit recognized
as essential in any satisfactory economic order. The government's
failure to take official notice of these unjust and fuedalistic practices
has caused the black man to lose confidence in the integrity of official
America. Thousands of black men who today would be, and should
be, productive economic factors have joined the ranks of the idle
and shiftless. A more dangerous type have concluded that justice
so far as they are concerned is conditioned upon the accuracy of their
aim and the weight of their blows. Recent racial clashes throughout
nation bear this out without need of further argument.
the This country has many titanic international questions to con-
front. The most optimistic among us do not doubt that the settlement
may require conflict. The fidelity of fifteen million cannot be
ignored in such a crisis. Unofficial organizations have collected a
lot of data on lynching. They had to take such data as was handed
to them by those who either committed the crime or were in sympathy
with it. When a Federal Commission backed up by the
Army and Navy goes into the bowels of Dixie and assures those who
have been victims of the crime that they will be immune from molestation
, new and startling disclosures will be made on the subject.
We are of the opinion that when this expose has been made and the
whole truth is placed before the American people in its nudeness
that public sentiment will be immediately organized to obliviate this
crime. Senator McCormick should be congratulated by the whole
nation for his farsightedness. He is not only doing, the black man
favor but the nation a service, a
