Organized, Incorporated.
Birth of a Nation Revived,
WHERE WILL THIS POISON END?
Birth of a Nation Leaves Denver Today.
Tho love repine and Reason chafe, there came a voice
without reply,' tis man's perdiction to be safe, when, for the
truth he ought to die!" -Du Bois"
No Negro within the confines of Colorado nor white
man, for that matter can truly and correctly estimate the invidious
and silent harm done to the Negro and the Ameri-
can principles of government, as has been done by the pro-
duction of the Birth" Colorado
" of Nation
a in Denver and.
Why should our fair Denver be forced to swallow the cast
offs of other cities? For the sake of the more credulous
Denver people and our friends we will request your careful
thoughtful perusal of the advertisement appearing in the At-
lanta Constitution, commented upon by New York Age.
We never under estimated the evils that" The Birth of
a Nation" would do the race. We knew that the picture
would fan the fires of hell wherever it was exhibited, and
have teared that in some localites these fires would burst into
a conflagration but, even so, we find that we did not realize
how far its baleful power would extend.
A watchful correspondeut has sent us an advertisement
clipped from the Atlanta Constitution. At the top of the
advertisement is the picture of a hooded horseman bearing
a torch in hand, and underneath the picture is the following
reading matter:
" Knights of the Klu Klux Klan, For Home, Country and
Each Other. A high class order for men of intelligence
and character. The World's Greatest Secret Social, Pa-
fotic, Fraternal, Beneficiary Oreg."
Chartered by the State of Georgia, December 6, 1915.
Col. W. J. Simmons, Founder and Imperial Wizard, 85
Peachtree Place, Atlanta, Ga."
Here we have" The Birth of a Nation," not merely set
forth in a moving picture show, But Perpetuated in an active
organization; an organization which will grow and spread,
and whose virulent power compared with that of" The Birth
of a Nation" will be as a cancer compared to a cat boil.
There can be no mistaking the character and objects of this
society. The name," Knights of the Kluklux Klan," coupled
with the legend," For Home, Country and Each other," fully
reveal them.
A few months ago the press of the entire country denounced
some of the citizens of Georgia, and the state indirectly
, for the lynching of Leo Frank. The lynching of
Frank marks a day in the history of Georgia; but her we
the state itself authorizing and sanctioning a reversions
to a whole epoch of blackness.
We appeal to the press, both north and south, to take
notice of the" Knights of the Kluklux Klan."
The above editorial from the New York Age is respectively
commended to the attention of these who have been
inclined to minimize the effect of Dixon's photoplay
ganda propa-
