ANTI- LYNCHING MEETING.
BOSTON WOMEN HOLD BIG
Senators Asked to Introduce Bill Making
Lynching a Federal Crime.
Boston. At a lynching protest mass
meeting in Faneuil hall held recently
under the auspices of a committee of
thirty colored women, led by Mrs. W.
Monroe Trotter, it was unanimously
voted to petition Senator Crane and
Congressman McCall at Washington
to offer bills in the senate and the
house making lynching wherever perpetrated
a federal crime. It was also
voted to again petition President Taft
" to throw his influence in the scale
against the men who burn little children
and to appeal to colored men to
stand against crime or criminals.
whether they be black or white, and
not to be so easily lynched."
In a stirring address on" Lynching
and American Public Opinion" Rev. R.
C. Ransom of New York city said that
lynchings primarily sprang out of the
desire of the former slaveholding
states to repress the Negro. The south,
he claimed, in order to justify itself in
these barbarities began by blackening
his character and by painting him as a
monster who menaced the safety of
women.
" Negroes themselves," he said." are
largely to blame for the contempt in
which they are held and the impunity
with which their liberties and their
lives may be invaded. Sheriffs, may.
ors, courts. governors, will not take
seriously into account the interests of
a people who have lost or surrendered
the right to retaliate or call them to
account at the ballot box. Mobs do
not quail when there is no fear that
their wild brutalities will be answered
by a volley of bullets."
He said the action of this government
in abrogating the treaty with
Russia furnishes a striking example as
to how the lynching evil can be combated
.
" We would advise," he said," that
Negro subjects of the British empire
who come to this country numerously
from the British West Indies travel
freely throughout the southern states
and when they are jimcrowed and
otherwise assaulted and degraded that
they appeal to the British government
on the ground that their treaty rights
have been violated."
" Within the past twenty- six consecutive
years there have been recorded
25,000 lynchings of colored Americans
in the United States. Not one lyncher
has been punished," said Mrs. W. Mon-
roe Trotter.
" Think of the father with his son
and daughter murdered on their way
to the cotton gin with the products of
their labor, the father and son tied to
the cart and burned, the daughter shot
in the back!
" If these are not horrible enough to
move you to sympathy, then think of
the mother torn from her suckling
babe, raped and with her fourteen-
year- old son dragged through the
streets of a city and hanged to the
ties of a bridge! Think of those bodies
swinging in the air, and if these
do not move to action God help
us colored people you!"
