A KANSAS KILLER.
H Attempts to Depopulate& Whole
Neighborhood and is Himself
Lynched.
LARNED, Kansas, Nov. 10.- Particulars
have been received here of the crime
and lynching of Samuel Purple, near the
village of Marine. The reports say that on
last Friday morning Mrs. Purple arose as
usual and prepared the breakfast. She then
went to awaken her husband, which so en
raged him as to incite him to the heinous
crime which soon followed.
He sprang violently from his bed, and
seizing his revolver shot his wife through
the body, from which wound she died at
once. The new- born babe was the next one
attacked, with the same result. He next shot
and killed another of his children. His sister
- in- law, Miss Lawler, was then selected
and fired at. The ball passed through her
arm and lodged somewhere in the shoulder.
As this emptied his revolver he proceeded
to load his shot- gun in order to complete the
work. A slight misunderstanding was the
only thing that stopped the deadly proceedings
. The powder was poured into one barrel
and, by error, the shot into the other.
With this he endeavored to blow the
head off another child, but as there was not
enough powder in the barrel the child's
face was only severely burned by the explosion
. A heavy blanket was seized and
wound around the suffering child, and this
was securely wrapped with heavy wire, in
the hope that he might accomplish by suffocation
what he had failed to do by the use
of the shotgun. The child will recover, although
fearfully disfigured about the face.
The murderer then mounted a horse and
started across the field with the avowed
purpose of murdering his wife's father and
mother. Before he could accomplish this,
however, the wounded young lady had
made her way to the village and notified
the inhabitants of what had happened, and
they had congregated for resistance.
Seeing that his plan was frustrated, Purple
hastened to Jetmore and surrendered
himself to the authorities, where he was
placed in jail, surrounded by a heavy guard.
Last night a mob of 100 men went in
quietly to the jail and demanded the prisoner
, who was delivered up with little ceremony
. He was then taken back to the
scene of his crime and hanged to a tree.
Only one member of the family escaped
serious injury, and that was the murderer's
boy, who had hid under his bed when
little he heard his father coming.
