A NEAR JUSTICE POLICY
THE extreme tension created in a community by a vast mob of
race rioters seems to deprive many justice- loving men of their usual
courage. The spectacle of law- abiding, responsible business men hesi-
tating to testify regarding facts known to them, and which they know
to be necessary to indict guilty participants in a mob which has taken
human life and destroyed valuable property, is one which does not inspire
great respect for the law or increase any citizen's faith in the
vital strength and reliability of our form of government. The men who
restored order after the Atlanta riots faced a more serious situation
than that existing at Springfield, recently, because of more bitter race
feeling under normal conditions. While conditions may have been
tomplicated by politics, to some extent, at Springfield, it appears to the
outsider that many responsible men who wanted order restored, were
afraid to testify openly and clearly against murderous law- breakers,
because of the resentment and perhaps restribution which mob members
or mob sympathizers might visit upon them or their establishments.
Up to the beginning of the present week, the special grand jury at
Springfield had returned fifty indictments in connection with the recent
riots there, but at least twenty of these are against Negroes for
murderous assault, while those against white men are almost entirely for
the destruction of property. Only one indictment charging murder has
been returned, and the alleged murderer is a Negro. Of the hundreds
of whites who participated in the lynching of numerous innocent Negroestion
right in the heart of Springfield, not one has been indicted for murder
. It was easy, however, to get evidence against the Negroes and to
indict them for the gravest offenses, which would not have been committed
at all if the white mob had not first begun its work. The remedy
for mobs is not to be found in the punishment of would- be victims of the
mobs who have retaliated against their persecutors or supposed persecutors
with a viciousness aroused by their own danger. The remedy lies in
the fearless demonstration that the law and the courts must be the absolute
and sole apprehenders and punishers of criminals. Along with the
Negroes who committed unnecessary crimes, even in self- defence, should
be corralled unrelentingly as many of the white mob leaders and their
followers as the best detective service can find, and not one of them,
any reason, should be allowed to escape the responsibility of his acts for.
