NEWS. COLORADO IMPORTANT
GOVERNOR WAITE'S VIEWS.
He Denounces the Lynching and Declares
that He Will not Prevent the
Execution of D ath
Sentences.
An indignation meeting was held in Den-
ver on the day following the lynching of
Arata and resolutions passed strongly denouncing
the infamous act.
It having been stated that one reason for
the lynching was the general understanding
that Governor Waite would commute the
death sentence of any convicted murderer,
the governor spoke as follows:
" It does seem to me, as it must seem to all
fair- minded men, that the proceeding was
most criminal. It was a violation of the laws
of the land, and as such is open to the severest
consure. I do not take into consideration
now the guilt or innocence of the man who
was hanged, but I take into consideration
the existence of the laws upon our statute
books, and no man should be punished without
a trial. If there was no question as to
the man's guilt, then there need have been
ho doubt of the result of a trial.
" The laws of Colorado plainly state that wilful
murder shall be punished by death, and
as governor, I have no disposition to nullify
the laws of the state. I am not in favor of
capital punishment, but while the law pre-
scribes death as the punishment of murder
that penalty should be enforced. It would
be a very extreme case indeed that would be
pardoned.
" I understand I have been in a measure
blamed for the outrage last night. In no instance
is there on record a case where I have
respited a convicted murderer, save one, but
where the respite was only temporary, and in
order to give the superior courts time to act.
It would not be humane to permit a man to
be rushed to death without that advantage of
appeal given him by the laws of the land under
which we live. The only case in which
I gave respite longer than the time necessary
to secure the aid of the superior courts was
that of a man who was sentenced to hang during
the term of Governor Routt, and was reprieved
by that official until I should come
into office, and as I did not see fit to become
hangman for Governor Routt, I did as he did
and put off the hanging until some later governor
might be called to act.
" Now, I want it understood, and understood
distinctly, that I am here to enforce and not
to oppose the laws, and as it is clearly the
laws of Colorado that murder shall be punished
by hanging, I am not disposed to step in and
impede the full exercise of that law. As a
citizen I may oppose hanging, but as a
ernor I do not." gov-
