DENVER AT LYNCHED MURDERER
AVENGED.
AN OLD SOLDIER
A Big Mob With Little Dimculty Cap-
tures the County Jail and
Hangs Dan Arata, an
Murderer.
Italian
Denver was disgraced by a lynching on the
night of Wednesday the 26th. It can be said
however that the victim of the mob was
guilty and richly deserved his fate.
The man lynched was Dan Arata ho on
the day previous while partially intoxicated
foully murdered Benjamin C. Lightfoot a
highly respected citizen and a member of the
G. A. R. Lightfoot was killed in Arata's
saloon near the Union depot, without any
whatever. Arata, who is an
provocation
Italian, had been ugly all day and was looking
for some one to wreak vengeance upon
when Lightfoot dropped into the saloon for a
drink of beer on his way home from work.
Arata shot and pounded Lightfoot to death
and threw the body into an alley. He was
arrested but denied committing the crime.
Arata had killed a man before and had been
Cleared by an alibi sworn to by Italians.
There were rumors of a lytichtig during
the day, and at 8 o'clock a party of army
veterans and others formed at Eighteenth
and Larimer streets and started for the jail
for the purpose of avenging Lightfoot's
death. As the crowd progressed it was augmented
by thousands of men, crying" Hang
the Dago."
At Fourteenth street the excitement be-
eame so intense that the crowd began to run,
and then the rush to the jail became a perfect
race, each man apparently in the greatest
alarm lest some others should get there and
rob him of the privilege of assisting at the
hideous task. To get to the jail in the shortest
possible time became everybody's alm,
and breaking from the original mase great
partles of 500 or more swept along every
street, each taking the way that occurred to
it as the shortest.
At shortly after 9 o'clock the square about
the jall was thronged by an excited mob of
more than 10,000 men. The leaders lost no
Without a moment's
time in speech- making.
delay four of them dashed up the steps to the
north or main entrance. They were met
there by Captain Crews, who demanded what
they wanted.
" We want that brutal fiend of a Dago you've
got here," replied the spokesman, in a low
volce." You'll give him up?"
" I will not," was all the jailer said, but his
tone evidently meant business and the door
closed with a clang.
Then we'll take him," yelled the leaders
of the mob, and they explained as best they
could to their pushing, struggling compan-
tons below what Captain Crews had said, and
the task that was before them.
When the actual work of breaking in was
decided upon, a state of things developed
that showed clearly the spontaneous growth
of the movement. In the whole mob there
was not a tool of even the dimensions of a
tack hammer. No one had given a thought
to a thing beyond the simple getting of his
own person to the scene of action. Now for a
few moments all was confusion and uproar.
" A sledge! a sledge!" a hundred throats
would yell." Bring a crow or a sledge,"
would come the echo from a thousand or
more, but to no one did it seem to occur to go
get the tools himself. Then principally
for and want of other occupation those on the
porch began to tear down the storm doors.
In an instant Constable George Welsh was
among them, cuffing and batting them right
and left with his fists and kicking the whole
dozen or so off the steps altogether. His
fearless pluck and determination evidently
awed the mob, and had it been followed up at
once by the resolute action of even a dozen
others, the mob, big as it was, could probably
have been dispersed without further trouble.
But the support did not come, the proper opportunity
was allowed to slip by and from
that minute the final result became inevitable
.
A strongly- built heavy- set man, evidently a
mechanic, appeared with a crowbar and with
him a companion bearing a sledge. Without
a word these two tramped up the steps and
the next minute a dull thud. followed by a
ringing clank of metal against metal, announced
that the first actual blows were
struck and the crowd fairly shrieked with delighted
satisfaction.
Then blow after blow echoed and re- echoed
in a way that told plainly that the sledge was
being wielded by men who knew how to use
it. All this time the guards within the jall
had been keeping very quiet, but now they
could be seen through the windows, running
about, evidently preparing for defense. The
first result of this movement became apparent
when the light on the porch suddenly went
out, leaving the workers in darkness- the gas
had been turned off inside the jail. For a
few moments this caused a lull in the sledging,
but then a candle was produced, and soon a
kerosene lamp, and the banging of the hammer
started up again with redoubled vigor
amid tremendous yelling by the crowd.
The entrance at which this attack was being
made is peculiarly strongly situated for
defense. It is perhaps ten feet above the
ground, reached by a flight of a dozen steps
and a porch not over five feet wide. This
gave the attacking party very scant room for
work. The door itself is double, the outer
one being of iron and steel bars, the inner of
solid iron. The outer or cage door had of
course to be overcome first, and the sledging,
for all it was kept up persistently and with
vigor, had very ilttle effect. The crowd soon
began to be impatient, and ironical shouts of
" Goin' to be all night about that door?" were
going up on every side, when all at once
there was a change. A big brawny miner appeared
on the porch, and he had his miner's
pick with him. With a wave of his hand he
got the other workers out of the way and
struck a scientific blow at the stonework
about the hinges. The splinters and chips
flew in every direction, and it was evident in
a moment that a very few more such strokes
would settle the door. The guards inside evIdently
appreciated this as well as anybody,
for they at once ceased their Fabian tactics,
and, throwing open the solid inside door,
turned the fire hose on the lights of the attackers
. This caused another delay, while
the illumination was relit, only to be extinguished
in the same way once again. The
next time the light- holders lit up they put
their hats before the lanips and candles,
while others tore off one of the storm doors
and pressed it against the grating break
the force of the stream from the faces of the
workers, snd then the hammer began again.
The struggle continued in this way for
time One of the guards inside the jail
some.
fired on the beslegers and a colored boy was
wounded in the hip. This increased rather
than diminished the zeal of the mob.
Street cars were stopped and the headlights
taken off to furnish light for the men at work
upon the door.
Other parties began work upon the other
entrances of the jail. Twenty men took a
long four- inch iron pipe some one found and
using it as a battering- ram made short work
of the ground floor door on South eleventh
street. As it went in a perfect roar of satisfaction
went up from 10,000 throats:" They're
in! They're in! Come on, everybody!" was
the cry, and hundreds of men crowded themselves
into the corridor, where everybody
soon found himself in everybody else's way
for there were several to
broken down before they could even get up-
, but nothing daunted, the battering-
stairs ram men fell to work with a will, and the
crash of their blows re- echoed through the
building. To intimidate this party the
whole
guards fired several more shots from shotguns,
which made a most thunderous and disquieting
noise, but the fact announced by some
body that the charges were only blank
markedly spoiled the effect.
Finally at 10:30, by dint of hard work with
the crows, the sledge and the miners' picks,
the outside grated door on the north side
gave way and was torn aside. Five minutes
more and the inner door yielded, and with a
rush the mob went into the jall.
They expected a hot reception as they went
up the stairs. They were confronted by a
squad of policemen, but still they poured up
the stairs. The officers saw it was no use;
nothing could be done by clubbing; and they
would not shoot.
The guards could have used their gnns and
slaughtered many, but Jailor Crews ordered
them to retreat to the inner corridor and
slammed the door in the faces of the leaders
of the crowd. This door is but a thir? steei
plate and the guards saw at once that f
would be broken down within a few minutes.
They hid away the keys to the different
wards and then allowed the vast crowd to rush
into the main court of the jail. One of the
leaders demanded the keys, but Crews refused
to give them up and the mob proceeded
to hunt for Arata.
The crowd had not been in the jail ion}
before the information was given that Arata
was in the" cooler," and the sathe sledgers
who broke in the front door were scom at
work on this cell. The cell has but one solid
iron door, but this is of great thickness, and
it required half an hour to get through it.
When the interior of the cell was open to
the view of the crowd, Arata was standing
coldly in the middle of the cell, cool and
calm, and seemingly indifferent to the fate
awaiting him.
" Go to hell, you fellows. What you becu
making so much noise about! I am the
wrong man," he said.
" That's Arata. That's he," cried several,
and two or three grabbed him and jerked him
out into the corridor.
" Get over this as soon as you can." A boy
grabbed his hair.
" Don't pull my hair. Kill me if you're
going to," he yelled.
More like a rag than a human being, the
murderer was dragged, knocked, pulled out
into the open air, where he was received with
yells of satisfaction. The murderer was carried
quickly to Santa Fe avenue and across
the street. After a few minutes waiting a
rope was produced and thrown over the limb
of a cottonwood tree. Ready hands made a
stood first in
noose at the lower end. Arata
a stupor of fear and then struggled like a
wild beast at bay. Some one struck him a
blow in the neck. He stopped struggling.
" What have you to say!"
" Tell my mother not to cry," said Arata.
" Did you murder Lightfoot?"
" Yes; hurry up and get through with me,"
he panted.
He was quickly strung up, and after a fer
convulsive jerks a number of shots were fired
into his body.
The mob was not yet satisfied and pro
the body through
ceeded to drag
the streets. The leaders, followed by a tremendous
throng proceeded down town. At 11
o'clock they reached the corner of Seventeenth
and Curtis streets where the almost
body was again suspended. It was cut
down naked in a short time by the pollee.
