LYNCH LAW IN TEXAS.
Whenever the Court of Judge Lynch organizes and
gets fairly at work, it is a most difficult matter to
prevent its being prorogued indefinitely, and extending
its labors far beyond even what is claimed as the
limits of its legitimate jurisdiction. The history of
Lynch law in Texas presents a case in point. We
remember the time, years ago, when Texas was what
California became afterwards, a refuge and asylum
for law- breakers, fugitives from justice and outcasts
from society generally. Now it is anything but that,
and criminals fleeing from lawful punishment would
do well to avoid the Lone Star State, or at least beware
that the story of their misdeeds does not follow
them, and, of all things, refrain from any natural impulse
towards a repetition of their offenses while enjoying
the hospitality of the home of their adoption,
lest that hospitality should leave them at a ten minutes
' warning dangling by the neck to the limb of
the nearest tree. Indeed, should Judge Lynch continue
to supersede Blackstone at the progressive
rate of the past few years, it will soon not be safe for
a stranger to travel through certain parts of Texas
on horse, mule or mustang, without the most convincing
and undeniable credentials in his pocket.
So common has it become' in the portions of that
State where the jurisdiction of Judge Lynch is acknowledged
, to yield unquestioning obedience to his
behests, that the execution of his sentences is generally
treated lightly and made the occasion of numerous
good humored remarks. A joke follows the
operation of stringing a horse thief up between heaven
and earth quite appropriately, gracefully and naturally
. We recollect that not long" since a friend, of
large experience in the Lone Star State, related to us
a thrilling story of the exploits of something like a
dozen Mexicans, who proved themselves famous fellows
at the game of appropriating stray horses, mules,
and in fact almost any kind of property that in law
would be presumed to belong to somebody else.
Their acquisitive career, however, was suddenly closed
by a misfortune which was to them probably quite as
unexpected as extraordinary. Early one morning
the dead bodies of the whole band were found suspended
by the necks to the limbs of a" black- jack"
tree, and it was supposed, gravely continued the narrator
, that they had hanged themselves through remorse
for their misdeeds, or from a feeling of shame
and mortification at having selected a bad lot of
horses. Society could hardly lose anything by the
death of these rascals, but we think that the people
of that neighborhood might quite reasonably have regretted
that they did not choose some other locality
to hang themselves in.
But how is it when the unscrupulous and unreasoning
fury of the" Regulators" makes a terrible mis.
take, as it often does, and sacrifices an innocent man,
while the guilty one in secresy and safety laughs at
and derides their blindness? Would it not be a fearful
and harrowing reflection for any individual possessed
of the ordinary feelings and sensibilities of humanity
, that he had lent his countenance and aid in
the destruction of a poor wretch who should after all
turn out to be innocent of the offense charged? We
think so, decidedly. This observation is suggested by
the following statement, which we find in a Shreve-
port paper:
I, Thomas J. Rodden, was mistaken for a man who
called himself Thomas J. Rodgers, who was in Rusk
county, Texas, about the time a mule was stolen in said
county, on the 14th day of July last. So far from
knowing anything about the act of theft, I was in Co-
lambia county, Arkansas, at the house of J. S. Parham,
but had been, and was known in Rusk county before
this occurrence, and owing to the similarity in our
names, it was supposed that I was the man, and
hence I was followed to Homer, Claiborne parish,
and arrested by four men, viz: Isaac A. Lee, Henry
Emory, Jeff. Walden and Pet. Walden. I refused to
go with them; but when Henry Emory, an old acquaintance
, told me that he would see that I had just
ice done me, I consented to go with them.
To my surprise, instead of going with me to see that
I proved myself clear of this charge, they refused to
go with me by any of the gentlemen's houses whose
certificates I here give, showing that I was at their
houses for many nights before and after the stealing
was done. In a most cruel manner was I treated.
With a rope around my neck, they would draw me
up from the ground and threaten to take my life if I
did not acknowledge the act of theft. When tried
in this way, and whipped severely, they would call
the names of many men and ask me if they were not
engaged in the stealing business. I acknowledged to
all the names, rather than die, but really knew but
few of the men, and only answered as I did from fear
of their threats. I knew none of them only as honest
and good citizens. I answered in this way the names
of Peter Walker, George Bell, Amos Smith and Ben
Smith.
They took me up to Hempstead county, Ark.,
where I had told them, rather than die, that the mule
could be found. I was put under torture again, as
the mule was not in the county. Not knowing what
to do, I told them that the mule was in Bossier parish,
La .; this was done to prolong my life. They made
me walk forty- three miles by punching me with their
guns. The next morning I knew that death was
close at hand, and knew also that the mule was not,
to my knowledge, in Bossier parish, or any where
else, and unless I made my escape that I was doomed
to die an innocent death that day. At day- light they
all went out to feed their horses, leaving a traveler in
bed close by me. I prayed to God to help me in this
awful trial, and with a nail tried to pick the lock on
the chain that confined me; to my great surprise and
relief, it flew open; without hat, shoes or coat, I
started afoot, and by running all day, I cleared
myself of these desperadoes.
THOMAS J. RODDEN.
[ Here follow numerous certificates, signed by responsible
names, which satisfactorily establish Rod-
den's respectability.]
Now this is all wrong, and the people of Texas will
perhaps learn, in time, that the policy of executing
justice without the forms of law, and at the risk of
confounding the innocent with the guilty, is a dangerous
one, and at the best an exceedingly bad one.
They may succeed in ridding themselves, to a certain
extent, of the presence of criminals and vagabonds
( who are not more numerous nor more wicked there,
probably, than in other parts of the world), but any
advantage thus obtained is certain to be more than
counterbalanced by the demoralization of public sentiment
which must surely follow the example of all
law set at naught openly and with impunity. If the
laws are inefficient, let them be reformed; if the
fault lies in the execution of those laws, let them reorganize
their courts and improve the personnel of
their juries. But, above all things, men of sense,
who have an interest in the honor and prosperity of
their State, should avoid joining in any popular outcry
for summary punishment, and should invariably
oppose the supremacy of the code of Judge
and the indiscriminate vengeance of mob law. Lynch
