much clubbing dispersed the crowd. The
two negroes got away.
Riot Alarm Sent In.
Word reached the West Forty- seventh
street station to- night that a large mob
was at Eighth avenue and Forty- second
street. The reserves were run out and
dispersed the crowd, which numbered over
a thousand persons. A second alarm sent
the reserves to Forty- ninth street and
Tenth avenue, but not more than fifty
persons were there. They ran before the
policemen. A mob was reported at
Amsterdam avenue and Sixty- first street
at 10 o'clock. A squad went there and
found a crowd of about 1000 angry men,
who
were dispersed. The police then
found Anton Steketesik, an Italian fruit
vender, lying on the sidewalk, stabbed in
the chest. He said William Cody, a white
boy, had robbed the fruit stand and when
he had protested they beat him and
stabbed him with the Italian's fruit knife ..
A riot call was sent in from Thirty-.
seventh street and Eighth avenue at 10
o'clock. Chief Devery
ordered Captain
Cooney to take a large squad and disperse
the crowd. Cooney found several
hundred men and boys at the corner mentioned
and they were acting very ugly.
The mob was charged and many persons
clubbed.
Policeman John J. Howard saw a well-
dressed man on the corner and ordered
him to move. The man refused to do so.
Howard knocked him down and took a
revolver from him. Howard made another
search and found that the man had a
badge. He then let him go, convinced
that he had beaten a brother officer. Half
an hour later the policeman who had been
clubbed staggered into the West Thirty-
seventh- street station to complain of his
treatment. Chief Devery
at once recognized
him as Patrolman William Powers.
Chief Devery ordered Captain Cooney to
take Powers' shield and revolver and lock
him up on the charge of being drunk and
disorderly and flourishing a revolver to
incite the crowd to riot.
Two May Die.
All the prisoners arrested in the riot last
night except Lee, were arraigned in the
West Side Court to- day. A majority were
fined$ 10, a few were held in bonds to keep
the peace, several were discharged and
Carr was held to await the result of the
injuries to Officer Kennedy. The magistrate
stated in advance that all prisoners
before him should have a fair trial.
A dispatch from Washington to- day announced
the arrest there of Arthur Har-
ris, the alleged murderer of Policeman
Thorpe. David H. Carr, a negro, charged
with having had a hand in the stabbing
of Policeman Kennedy, was held without
ball to await the result of Kennedy's injuries
. Lee, the other negro charged with
stabbing Policeman Kennedy, has
not
been arraigned.
Notwithstanding the excitement of the
riot, but two persons, so far as known,
were seriously injured. These were Policeman
Kennedy, stabbed in the left side,
and Lee, the negro, with pistol shot
wound in his breast and a scalp wound.
It is thought that Lee is fatally injured
Policeman Kennedy is seriously so..
NEGROES IN NEW YORK
MOBS STILL FIGHT
Over Fifty People Injured With Pistol
Balls, Razors. Clubs or
Like Weapons. Other
EW YORK, Aug. 16.- Such a fuN
rious ebullition of race hatred as
found vent in the rioting that occurred
here last night over the
murder a few days ago of Policeman
Thorpe by a negro named
Arthur Harris has not been equaled in
many years. As a result of the disturbance
, which raged from midnight until 3
o'clock and burst out in a flame of passion
and violence at intervals until daybreak
, there were about fifty persons injured
by pistol balls, razors or knives,
rocks and clubs. Of these
one negro,
Lloyd Lee, may not recover, and Policeman
Kennedy is also seriously injured.
Lee is alleged to have made threats
against the life of Kennedy because he
was the particular friend and associate
of Thorpe, the murdered officer. Thorpe
was the third white man murderously assaulted
in the vicinity by negroes, a race
prejudice having been engendered.
In less than an hour from the time the
trouble began last night the whole of
the West Side, from Twenty- eighth street
to Longacre Square, above Forty- second
street, including Eighth and Ninth avenues
, was in an uproar.
Forty or more arrests were made.
Inspector Thompson, with 100 policemen,
in addition to the several hundred regular
men in the precincts affected, was on
the ground in the riotous district before
nightfall, and he kept his men on the
move. They had orders to arrest
any
man, black or white, who evinced the
slightest disposition toward riot.
The police arrested several negroes
after clubbing them severely.
Negro Nearly Lynched.
Inspector Thompson was near Eighth
avenue and Fortieth street, when he noticed
a tumult aboard an Eighth- avenue
car. He ran with a couple of men to investigate
and found that a negro passenger
was the cause of the trouble. He
had not done any wrong, but several
white men tried to get in a punch at the
black man and two women tried to stab
him in the face with hatpins. Inspector
Thompson arrived just in time to see a
paving- stone crash through the car window
and lay the negro out with a stun-
ning blow on the head. Louis Swartz, 18
years old, threw the stone. He was arrested
.
Many fights between whites and blacks
resulted to- night. Alexander
Robinson,
a negro, and a colored friend were on a
Thirty- fourth- street car. Some one set
up a shout as the car neared Eighth avenue
that the negroes ought to be lynched.
A man with a clothesline appeared from
somewhere and the two negroes were
pulled off the car. The rope was thrown
around Robinson's neck and with fifty
men and boys pulling the mob started for
a lamp post A squad of police
appeared
before the. mob had gone far and with
