Constable Carpenter and His Deputies
Are Compelled by the Avengers
Assist in the Hanging of the Culprits to
Frontiersmen Take Aged Calvin Hall,
Three Sons and Their Comrade
From His Officers and String Them Up
MODOC COUNTY MOB
LYNCHES FIVE
FOR PETTY THEFTS MEN
CALVIN HALL, 72 YEARS OLD.
FRANK HALL, 26 YEARS OLD.
JAMES HALL, 19 YEARS OLD.
MARTIN HALL 16 YEARS OLD.
B. D. YANTIS,, 27 YEARS OLD.
VICTIMS OF THE MODOC LYNCHERS.
LTURAS, May 31.- Five men lynched for petty thievery! Swift and
A
awful was the vengeance visited upon a quintet of culprits by a
Modoc County mob last night. Hanging to the stringers of a bridge
on the outskirts of Lookout, a little town ten miles west of Adin,
the bodies of Calvin Hall, two of his three sons and another young
man who had shared his home, are still swaying in the breeze.
From a culvert between the town and the bridge the body of the
third son is suspended. Shorter shrift was accorded him than to the others of
the lynchers' victims, because he fought for his life.
The mob was in no mood to be delayed. Halting long enough to choke out
the life of Frank Hall. it proceeded on its way to the place selected for the execution
. There the father and his remaining two sons and their comrade were put
to death. No time was wasted. The victims of the mob's vengeance were not
even given the opportunity of making a farewell statement. One by one they
were stretched up, willing hands pulling at the ropes that hauled them into
eternity.
Never in the history of California has there been such wholesale punishment
as this meted out to frontier offenders. And their crime had not attained even
the dimensions of horse- stealing- always a capital offense in those counties yet on
the borderland of civilization. They were thieves, no more: their booty was
the proceeds of nocturnal raids upon clotheslines petty and woodsheds.
ARTICLES THEIR HOME. FOUND IN STOLEN
Calvin Hall was 72 years of age- an old man tottering on the verge of the
grave. He was a squaw- man, and his three sons- Frank, aged 26; James, aged 19,
and Martin, aged 16- were the half- breed progeny of his life- union with an Indian
woman. B. D. Yantis, who shared the Hall home, was 27 years old.
For some time past the Halls and Yantis have been suspected of the thefts
of numerous articles, such as barbed wire, pieces of harness and articles of raiment
taken from the clotheslines of Lookout. They were arrested on Saturday
and constables armed with a search warrant repaired to their home. Briet
search served to bring to light eviienceof their guilt, and they were taken from
the Hall ranch to Lookout and there detained in custody to await examination
and trial. In the meantime the search was continued, and halters, dishes and
more articles of clothing were xound hidden away. The simple and honest populace
was aroused to the highest pitch of excitement as one by one the stolen articles
were restored to their owners. From the day of the arrest of the culprits
there have been muttered threats, and the Halls and Yantis knew that only a
leader was needed to place their lives in jeopardy.
The aged father was charged with petty larceny, consisting of the pilfering of
several hayforks only, and he was allowed to go free on his own recognizance.
His arraignment was to have taken place this morning. The other four faced
burglary charges, and their examinations were set for June 3. They remained in
custody, having been unable to procure the$ 300 bail demanded by the Justice
of the Peace before whom they had been brought.
There being no jail in Lookout the four prisoners were held in custody in the
Lookout hotel. In guarding them Constable Carpenter was assisted by R.
Nichols, J. W. Brown and S. Goyette. The former two remained on duty from
until midnight, when they were relieved by the others. Calvin Hall re-
noon mained as a guest of the hotel, so as to be near his sons.
OFFICERS. THE OVERCOMES LYNCHERS MOB OF
At 2 o'clock this morning a mob of masked men, their number variously estimated
at from thirty to fifty, suddenly appeared in the street before the
hotel. No hint of their coming had been given and the two men on guard were
taken completely by surprise. No attempt to spirit the prisoners away to a
place of safety or to defend them fromthe mob was possible. Brown and Goy-
ette faced the overwhelming odds of two score of determined men well armed.
They looked into the muzzles of rifles and shotguns held by steady hands, and
gruff voices from behind the masks ordered them bluntly to keep still if they
were not ready to die. The two guards were powerless to make resistance
and they attempted none.
While some were disarming Brown and Goyette, others of the mob broke in
upon the accused men and dragged them from their quarters. The masked men
knew their ground thoroughly, and lost no time in rounding up the frightened
quintet. The old man, Calvin Hall, was dragged from his bed and hurried out
and thrust into position by the side of his sons, while preparations were under
way for the grim march to the Pitt River bridge, which had been chosen for the
scene of the mob's terrible vengeance.
The hands of each of the accused men were bound securely behind him, and
a rope was noosed about the neck of each. The mob worked swiftly and silently
in the dim light of lanterns and, and few words were heard except the
entreaties of the doomed men, begging torches for their lives.
AVENGERS. FORCED AID THE TO GUARDS ARE
" Now come with us," one of the leaders said to the two guards." We need
your help." And Brown and Goyette were shoved into the ranks of men holding
the ropes that tightened about the necks of the trembling prisoners.
The mob moved swiftly and silently through the streets and along the road
leading to the bridge that spans Pitt River. There was no hesitancy or discussion
. The details were well planned and had been decided upon at the mob's
rendezvous- wherever that may have been- for the coming of the mob and its
going after the lynching was done are velled in mystery.
Frank Hall, the oldest of the three sons, stopped pleading when the mercl-
less purpose of the vigilantes became evident. He set his teeth with the grim
stoicism of his mother's race, and refused to proceed. He fought his captors
with the strength of despair, and even after he had been choked almost into
unconsciousness by the tightening noose he still offered stubborn resistar.ce.
The mob was in no mood for wasting its time with a refractory victim, and
the struggling prisoner was dragged and tumbled along to a culvert over a deep
gulch conveniently near. The rope was made fast, and young Hall was pushed
from the roadway into the gulch, with a sheer drop that left little life in his
When his executioners became assured that the swinging body was past
body.
resuscitation, they dragged the old man and his remaining two sons and Yantis
away the sight of the fate that was to be theirs, and hastened on toward
the from bridge.
HANGED. FIRST BE TO FATHER THE AGED
The chosen scene of execution reached, no delay was permitted. No one asked
the doomed men if they had prayers to offer or confessions to make. Calvin
Hall, the renegade white man whose half- breed sons had grown up to be thieving
accomplices of their father, seemed to be a particular object of the mob's
wrath. He was chosen for execution first of all, and with scarcely the delay of a
minute his body was dangling from the north side of the bridge,
Yantis and the two young Hails, both of them mere boys, were hustled unceremoniously
to the other side of the bridge and in a few minutes more their
swaying bodies were keeping ghastly companionship with that of the old frontiersman
.
Their grim work done, the lynchers did not tarry. Five minutes after the
last victim was strung up to the bridge timbers, the mob had dispersed. Not a
mask or a lantern was left, and their going was as silent and untraceable as
coming.
their
When the bodies of the victims were discovered this morning the news of
the lynching spread like wildfire, and people hastened from miles around to view
the gruesome sight.
Information of the mob's work was at once telegraphed to Sheriff Street, of
Modoc County, and District Attorney Bonner. Both of these officials and the
Coroner left Alturas for Lookout determined to ferret out the perpetrators
of the outrage have,
Call The. Dispatch to Special
