Editorial
The NAACP's Formula
For SurvivalNAACP's
The National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People was born under a mean cloud of urgency. Lynchings
were common in the early 1900s hundreds of African-
Americans were being killed annually by Southern mobs. And
that's not counting the scores of men, women and children killed
in anti-Black race riots.
↑
In 1989, we face a new “rope.” Rocks and powder — and the
ease with which they invade our community - create a "high"
which descends from on high. Government officials, corporate
leaders and others play a major part in the multi-billion dollar
drug industry. Crack, in 1989, lynches more Black people in a
single day than were executed in whole years during those early,
urgent days of the NAACP.
The legal anti-desegregation decisions secured by the NAACP
have so far survived, but in many cases, they live only on paper.
The law may still say you can live where you want to and work
where your credentials will take you. But Blacks' money and
their born-again isolation from educational opportunity are ve-
toing those messages.
Even the laws that dictate fairness in hiring, equal educa-
tional opportunity and non-racist on-the-job treatment are be-
ing sliced back. The Supreme Court has issued rapid-fire rever-
sals of important gains.
Blacks in 1989 can vote. But their votes on a national level
sometimes lose force. Recent presidential elections prove many
white Americans have helped erode minority voting strength
by using a curious formula: Check which candidate Blacks sup-
port and vote the opposite way.
Locally, especially in urban areas, the vote has offered much
more promise. But Black elected officials, when they're not
defending themselves against a disproportionate number of FBI
investigative assaults, are often caught in economic.
strangleholds that prevent them from offering substantial help
to many Blacks who are truly down-and-out. They can't even
begin to approach the panacea status many African-Americans
once believed they would gain.
So what are we going to do? What is the NAACP to do?
Let the sense of urgency grip you. Don't appear too happy.
Yes, workshops, association elections and speeches are impor-
tant at national conventions. And corporate sponsors are im-
pressive, in terms of dollars and influence.
But the real battles are of the roll-your-sleeves-up type in the
Black community. The solution may be in the streets, but not
merely in revisited 1960s-type protests to government leaders
about what's wrong in Black America. It's in door-to-door,
person-to-person activism, educating young people, organizing
waves of strong, committed Black people who can block out
drugs and ignorance...and keep in dollars and skills.
There is a schism that divides the Black community. A
dwindling strata of Black "haves" must, as King, as X, as Wood-
son and Hamer have said, close the divide and bring their
voices, skills and resources to the rescue of a burgeoning and
endangered underclass.
The people you save will be your own.
