Howard Beach Beach
The sound of silence sound of silence
By SYLVESTER LEAKS SYLVESTER LEAKS
"A White Liberal is someone who will
hang you from a low tree."
Dick Gregory
deafening silence of so-
crisis, where Blacks are in confrontation
with whites in the North, most so-called
"White Liberal" politicians will desert
Blacks, for political expediency, and
leave them to hang from low trees. Black
folks, at home and abroad, must learn to
rely on their own resources for survival,
'or perish!
How unforgivably hypocritical it is for
so-called "White Liberal" politicians to
'castigate what whites are doing to
Blacks in South Africa, and Mississippi
and elsewhere in the South, and then
bury their heads in the sand when
there's a "sea of trouble" in their own
backyard!
The most glaringly missing voice in
this potential race war is that of Gover-
nor Mario Cuomo. Can it be fear, Gover-
nor? One doubts it. Here is a man who
dared to "take on" Cardinal O'Connor,
one of the most powerful Clergyman in
America. Lawyer Mario Cuomo made
his reputation, and rode on that reputa-
tion to the Governor's Mansion, by suc-
cessfully mediating the "Scatter Site"
Housing crisis in Queens. Governor,
Blacks gave a staggering plurality in the
recent Gubernatorial Election. You owe
Blacks at least "a mumblin' word", and
much more.
Andrew Stein, president of the City
Council, and Peter Vallone, Majority
Leader of the Council, were among the
first to publicly chastise Police Commis-
sioner Benjamin Ward, and Mayor
Koch, for having the audacity to propose
rotating members of the Police Depart-
ment, to prevent Police corruption from
festering or metastasizing. Can it be
that Andrew Stein and Peter Vallone
find proposed Administrative change in
a city agency, more important, and
deserving of their collective opprobrium,
than raw murder of innocent Blacks? If
not, then their outrage must be heard, to
justify future Black votes for them.
Where are the voices of Congressman
Bill Green, Bella Abzug, Gloria Steinem,
Harrison Goldin, Howard Goldin, Lt.
Governor Lundine, Herman Badillo, the
collective voices of New York Central
Labor Council, and a host of others, in-
cluding the National Organization of
Women?
There are missing Black voices, too'.
The most notable of which is Roy Innis,
National Director of CORE, the Great
Black Defender of Bernard Goetz. The
apologist for Bernard Goetz, if you will.
One cannot help but conclude that it is
the fallout from the Bernard Goetz af-
fair that is fertilizing the rampant
racism in Howard Beach.
Where is your might, voice, Roy In-
nis? The three Blacks who were as-
saulted, one of whom was murdered,
were not "thugs and thieves". There-
fore, your silence is not acceptable or
justified. Roy, if you had been there, it
very well may have been you whom
those young hoodlums killed, or me or
any man with black skin. The whites in
the Howard Beaches of America will al-
ways view Blacks, no matter how
"powerful" or "big," in their eyes and in
their psyche as A NIGGER! Silence will
never placate them. Only struggle will
defeat them.
One inust seriously disagree with Ben-
jamin Hooks, Executive Director of the
NAACP, when he states, "We have got
to say to our white friends they have got
to come back to us." What "friends",
Mr. Hooks? If these "friends" were our
true friends, they would never have
deserted Black people in the first place.
True friends never desert friends. Une
who must be begged to become a friend
is not a friend.
Further, Mr. Hooks, when you state,
"even though we face violence, we won't
turn to violence," are you asking Black
people not to defend themselves when
attacked, and turn the other cheek? If
you are, you are preaching the wrong
Sermon, in the wrong Pulpit, to the
wrong Congregation. Today's Black
youths will never buy, or accept as a
gratuity, this "philosophy" of not
defending one's self, one's family, when
attacked. I strongly urge you, Mr.
Hooks, to walk the streets of
Brownsville, Harlem, East New York,
Bronx, Jamaica and listen to our youths.
You will experience an enlightning and
rewarding experience.
Blacks must, finally, face the awesome
reality that truth, alone, does not set one
free. Struggle sets one free. Once this
reality is accepted and understood, then
Black people in New York, and beyond,
will do what is necessary to liberate
themselves.
The Archie Bunkervilles and Howard
Beaches of America will not, have not,
cannot, be moved by "studies" and "Na-
tional Commissions". Their racism is or-
ganic, and will only be contained by
force: POLITICAL FORCE. When
Blacks take the political power, which is
theirs for the voting, "studies”, “mar-
ches", "prayer vigils", "National Com-
missions" will not be recommended as
vaseline, to cure a cancer, by faint
hearted politicians seeking the easy way
out.
