my view view
Nonsense
mays
I thought the days were over when Negro leaders
would be branded as Communist for taking a stand
on Civil Rights. I know the days when Blacks were
called Communist if they were against lynchings,
injustice, and segregation. This was true up to say,
1940. Pre-1940 Negroes were supposed to love
segregation and lynching based on the fact that they
were never expected to complain. If they did, they
would get more of the same. Any Negro who hasn't
been dubbed Communist should be ashamed of his or
herself. Nothing could be more complimentary than
to be among the distinguished Negroes of the past
and present who are called Communist ... Channing
Tobais, Walter White, W.E.B. DuBois, Mary McLeod
Bethune. William Monroe Trotter, Paul Robeson,
and John Ellison, Mordecai Johnson, Roy Wilkins, A.
Phillip Randolph, and many more.
How could Ambassador Young, who was one of the
right hand men of Martin Luther King, Jr., who went
with him to jail, a man who brought the Ghandhian
Doctrine of Non-Violence to the West, and who often
was the mediator in difficult disputes, how could this
man be labeled a Communist? Would Representative
Larry McDonald accuse a fellow white Georgian in
Young's position of being a Communist? I doubt it.
The Conservative Caucus has mounted a
conservative letter campaign to force the President
to take Young out of office, which I believe the
President will not do.
Chester Goolrick says this "a group chaired by the
editor of National Review, and including Rep. Larry
McDonald of Georgia, has sent out 200,000 copies of a
letter in a recent week soliciting funds for a push to
have Young ousted.”
This letter supposedly printed under the name of
Governor Thomson of New Hampshire and the
Conservative Caucus alleges that Young has
engaged in Pro-Marxist' agitation." The letter
which claims the official seal of New Hampshire
attacks Young for his alleged 'deep involvement
with both domestic and foreign Communists and
Communist inspired terrorist organizations, and his
complete lack of qualifications for the job of U.N.
Representative."
I don't believe that Carter will take Young down.
There is no need, for Andrew Young is needed to
speak for the Nation and World on problems of
Human Rights. Further, if Andy is taken down, it
would hurt the President's political future and
damage his moral image among the non-white
population of the World. Then President Carter
believes in Human Rights and has great respect for
Andrew Young.
Again, no white man could do what is for the
needed World as well as Andrew Young. The
majority of the population of the World is colored,
and Young speaks for the good of mankind. It would
be tragic to cut that voice off. In the midst of it all,
Young is rightly silent.
