CS
CS
mocrats assumed full responsibility for the defeat of the
not allowing it to be taken up fell like sweet music upon
s of most of the Republican senators. They felt that such
e on the part of the Democrats would relieve the Repub-
of the necessity of fighting for the passage of the Bill and
same time relieve them of the responsibility for its failure.
he Republicans evidently felt that such appearances would
e the Negroes of the country. In this they will find them-
mistaken. The colored people of the country will not be
ved by such a cheap show. They know and fully understand
the actual fight was the one made by the Southern Democrats
st the Bill rather than by the Republicans in its behalf. If
Republican senatorial leaders think the Negro will be satisfied
ely because they allowed the Southern Democrats to "put"
enselves on record" they are mistaken. The demand of the
ro was that the Republicans also put themselves on record,
this they failed to do.
OS
TU
T
On Saturday night, December 2, the Republicans in the
nate held a caucus to discuss what should be done about the
ll. The caucus was largely attended and the question of aband-
ing the Bill was hotly discussed for more than two hours. Grad-
ually the attendance dwindled until there were only some twenty
odd senators left. A vote was taken and the majority agreed to
abandon the Bill. Against this vote nine senators held out for
carrying the fight until the 4th of March if necessary.
N
AS
We believe that if the majority of the Republicans in the Sen-
ate had had the backbone of these nine men and had met the chal-
lenge of the Southern filibusterers and dared them to stop ab-
solutely the business of the government rather than allow the
a consideration of the Bill, public sentiment would finally have
brought a pressure which the filibusterers would not have been able
ao withstand. At any rate, such a course would have shown
SUNDurage and sincerity on the part of the Republicans and would a
ght to the public mind a realization of the antiquated
te system of rules under which the Senate tries to
раце иә of That the Bill was abandoned because of the determined
ore Southerners in the Senate will be no excuse to the
OSIE
100
- o sans
I
II ople for the apathy and cowardice of the Republicans.
18
“uօգսյqse
пилери:
OG
A pe
attitude on the part of the Republicans that the colored;
e as a resent as much as they will deplore the actual failure
Әовлон
ЯЛӘН
a
de
'Si pue
J
o
weyt
sus
THE NEW YORK AGE: SATURDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1922.
VIEWS and REVIEWS
By James Weldon Johnson, Contributing Editor.
THE REPUBLICAN ABANDONMENT OF THE DYER
ANTI-LYNCHING BILL.
The failure of the Dyer Anti-Lynching Bill to be passed by
the Senate may be ascribed to two contributing causes. The first
was the filibuster on the part of the Southern Democrats. The
second was the apathy and insincerity of the Republicans. This
filibuster is acknowledged to have been the most naked and brutal
exhibition of its kind ever made in the Senate. A filibuster is
generally carried on under some sort of disguise, but Senator
Underwood of Alabama, Democratic leader, made a statement
on the floor of the Senate regarding the tactics of his party in
which he said:
*
"We are not disguising what is being done on this
side of the Chamber. It must be apparent not only to the
Senate but to the country that an effort is being made to
prevent the consideration of a certain bill, and I want to
be perfectly candid about it. The bill is known in the
"Record" as the Dyer Bill, I believe; I have forgotten its
number.
* At the last session of Congress we had
this 'force' bill up and I think I very candidly stated to
nate when it was up that we did not propose to allow
it tobe passed, and I want to say right now to the Senate
that if the majority party insist on this procedure they are
not going to pass the bill and they are not going to do any
other business. * * * We are going to transact no.
more business until we have an understanding about this
bill. I am saying this because I am not trying to put the
responsibility upon the other side. They can say I said it.
If you gentlemen want to continue, after this candid state-
ment of the case, and keep this bill before the Senate you
know it is going to be blocked and cannot be passed, there-
by stopping the transaction of all other business, go ahead.
*If you do not intend to do that we might as well
come to an understanding and lay the bill aside, because
The members of the ma-
you cannot pass it.
jority party do not have to take the responsibility. We
are willing to take the responsibility and we are going
to do it.
*
*
father of Pushkin, the national poet of Russia, the man who bears
the same relation to Russian literature that Shakespeare bears to
English literature.
There is no doubt that Mr. Underwood meant what he said
and that he voiced the sentiments of the Southern members of his
party.
"I know the question naturally arises: If out of the few
Negroes who have lived in France there came a Dumas; and out of
the few Negroes who lived in England there came a Coleridge-
Taylor; and if from the man who was at the time, probably, the
only Negro in Russia there sprang that country's national poet
why have not the millions of Negroes in the United States with al
the emotional and artistic endowment claimed for them produced
a Dumas, or a Coleridge-Taylor, or a Pushkin?
"The question seems difficult, but there is an answer. The
Negro in the United States is consuming all of his intellectua
energy in this gruelling race-struggle.
"But, even so, the American Negro has accomplished some
thing in pure literature. The list of those who have done se
would be surprising both by its length and the excellence of the
"Phyllis Wheatley has never been given her rightful place in
American literature. By some sort of conspiracy she is kept ou
of most of the books, especially the text-books on literature used in
the schools. Of course, she is not a great American poet-and in her
day there were no great American poets-but she is an important
American poet. Her importance, if for no other reason, rests or
the fact that, save one, she is the first in order of time of all the
women poets of America. And she is among the first of all Ameri-
can poets to issue a volume.
"Anne Bradstreet preceded Phyllis Wheatley by a little over
twenty years. She published her volume of poems "The Tenth
Muse," in 1750. Let us strike a comparison between the two-
Anne Bradstreet was a wealthy, cultivated Puritan girl, the daugh-
ter of Thomas Dudley, Governor of the Bay Colony. Phyllis
as we know, was a Negro slave girl born in Africa. Let us take
Equally responsible for the failure of the bill was the luke-them both at their best in the same vein. The following stanza
warmness and apathy and even the insincerity of the Republicans. is from Anne's poem entitled 'Contemplation":
From the beginning, the Dyer Anti-Lynching Bill has been a dis-
tasteful measure to the great majority of Republicans in the Sen-
ate, one that they dreaded having to face. The progress which
the Bill made from the time of its being referred to the Senate
Committee on the Judiciary to its being brought up for considera-
tion on the floor was made literally under whip and spur and not
because the Republican leaders in the Senate tried or even wished
to adjance it. The Republican leaders in the Senate, Senator
Lodge in particular, hoped and expected that the Bill would be
left to sleep and die in committee. It took Herculean efforts to get
the Bill reported out and it took efforts equally strenuous to have it
placed on the legislative program, and even after it was there, it
was necessary to bring great pressure in order to have the measure
brought to the floor.
achievements.
"Such a list begins with Phyllis Wheatley. In 1761 a slave
ship landed a cargo of slaves in Boston. Among them was a little
girl seven or eight years of age. She attracted the attention o
John Wheatley, a wealthy gentleman of Boston, who purchased
her as a servant for his wife. Mrs. Wheatley was a benevolen
woman. She noticed the girl's quick mind and determined to
give her opportunity for its development. Twelve years later
Phyllis published a volume of poems. The book was brought
in London, where Thyiis for several
curiosity and attention.
..
'While musing thus with contemplation fed,
And thousand fancies buzzing in my brain,
The sweet tongued Philomel percht o'er my head.
And chanted forth a most melodious strain,
Which rapt me so with wonder and delight,
I judged my hearing better than my sight.
And wisht my wings with her awhile to take my flight.'
"And the following is from Phyllis' poem entitled 'Imagina-
tion':
'Imagination! who can sing thy force?.
Or who describe the swiftness of thy course?
Soaring through air to find the bright abode.
The empyreal palace of the thundering God.
We on thy pinions can surpass the wind,
And leave the rolling universe behind,
