THE NEGRO IN CLEVELA
POLITICAL
Negro Political Life Begins
DAVIS
(Continued from Last Week) Continued from Last Week)
It was during this same period that the
lynching of a Negro, "Click" Mitchell, took
place at Urbana, Ohio. Smith contended that
Mitchell was innocent of the alleged crime of
assault to kill and rape that led to his lynch-
ing and called upon Governor Bushnell to spon-
sor an impartial investigation of the brutal
act. Governor Bushnell did not respond fast
enough to please Smith and Smith was moved
to write that the Gazette had always been Re-
publican and that he did not want to bolt the
party but that he would do so if Bushnell did
not conduct an official inquiry into the lynch-
ing. (53)
with Governor Bushnell
During the year 1907 the editor of the
Cleveland Journal, a budding weekly paper, wrote
a series of articles entitled "The Day of the
Young Man." In one of the articles there was a
suggestion that the younger colored men should 1
strive for political leadership. While names H
were not mentioned, this suggestion appeared
to call for a change from the leadership provided
for the past 20
years by George A. Myers, 1
John P. Green and Harry C. Smith and their
supporters.
About 30 of the younger men met at Woodliff
Hall on the call of a committee consisting of
J.W. Wills, Sr., Edward P. Smith, George C.
Jones, Alexander H. Martin, and Samuel C.
Woods. The organization of the Attucks Republi-
can Club was effected with Martin as president.
Peyton Lemon and Smith as Vice presidents,
Woods, Secretary, J. Edward Dunhill, assistant
Secretary, Dr. E.A. Dale, Treasurer, Howard
E. Murrell, Sergeant-at-Arms and an executive
committee composed of George W. Buchanan,
Thomas W, Fleming, Augustus G. Eubanks, Ma-
hum D. Brascher and Jones. One of the first
actions taken by the club was the endorsement
of Fleming for one of the six councilman-at-
large positions to be nominated that year.
The club name honored Crispus Attucks, a
Negro, who shed his blood in behalf of American
freedom, in the Boston Massacre in 1770. The
Club was immediately admitted to membership
in the Cuyahoga League of Republican Clubs, and
functioned as the leading colored Republican
organization for years. Starting in 1908 the club
held an annual dinner during the month of
February to honor both Attucks and Frederick
Douglass, the Negro abolitionist leader. While
these men were honored, attention was also given
to Republican politics as evidenced by the pro-
gram of the first affair held at Atkins Restaurant,
2613 Central Avenue.
The Attucks Club
Douglass, the Statesman
Alexander H. Martin
J.M. Anderson
Mahum D. Brascher
Henry T. Eubanks
Dr. E.A. Dale
The annual dinner became known as the
Lincoln-Douglass banquet when a tribute to
President Abraham Lincoln was included. The
affair grew in popularity among Republican
politicians, Negro and white, and the 1919
dinner was held at Gray's Armory where Harry
E. Davis presided and the speakers included the
Reverend P.J. O'Connell of Cory Methodist
Church, Mayor Harry L. Davis and Rabbi Abba
H. Silver. At the 18th banquet at Mt. Zion Church
on Febraury 17, 1925, Thomas W. Fleming talked
on the History of the club.
Our Young Men
Life of Douglass
The Republican Party
Arthur D. "Starlight" Boyd whose tavern
was located on E.14th Street near Scovill Avenue
in the Negro area, became active in the Re-
publican party as a young man and finally took
over leadership of the 11th Ward. Boyd, a
supporter of Councilman Thomas W. Fleming
held political control of the ward from about
1910 until Boyd's death in 1921. Fleming then
assumed Republican leadership of the ward
until his conviction for accepting a bribe in 1929.
Fleming's wife, Lethia, announced that she would
seek election to her husband's vacated council
seat at the next election.
Continued next week,
1
