The Guilt Of Mankind Guilt Of Mankind
By Councilman Earl Brown Councilman Earl Brown
The human mind can comprehend the hor-
ror of a mob lynching a man. It can understand
the fiendishness of a brute raping and murder-
ing a woman. In cither case the human mind is
revolted and filled with indigation. Law-abiding,
decent citizens
the immediate
often demand
punishment of
the guilty ones whenever such
wanton crimes are committed.
The human mind, however,
cannot comprehend mass mur-
der. It is a mystery to it. Its
subconscious section may be
agonized, it may even wrestle
with the news and facts about
the multiple killing of a group;
of people, but neither it nor its!
conscious counterpart can be-
come as indignant and horrified about it as it
can when it learns of a lone woman being raped
and murdered or a man being lynched.
Therefore, it is likely that your mind and
mine cannot fully understand the grave signifi-
cance of the Eichmann trial now going on in
Israel. Yet, its testimony is revealing in detail
the most tragic and brutal story since the be-
ginning of time. It is enough to cause any man
to be concerned about the future of civilization
and certainly the security and rights of almost
any group of people as well as his own.
Would Lynch Suspects
If a woman were raped and murdered every
day for 365 days in New York, its 8 million in-
habitants would become so wrought up that they
would be likely to do almost anything to stop
the crimes. Conceivably the city's government
would be overthrown; every citizen would arm
himself; and even mere suspects would be ar-
rested and possibly lynched.
If you would multiply the raping and murder
of a woman every day for 365 days by 6 million,
you would not come anywhere near arriving at
what happened to 6 million Jews in Germany
under Hitler and his henchmen like Eichmann.
The planned, cold-blooded, efficient killing of 6
million Jews by the Nazis during the reign of
the Nordic beasts in Germany probably will go
down in the chronicling of man's record as the
word deed he ever committed.
When Eichmann sits in his glass cage in an
Israel courtroom listening to witnesses intoning
his anti-human deed of murdering millions of
Jews, he is not the only one on trial. Rather,
it is the entire human race. He and his Nazi
collaborators were only a part of it, the wick-
edest and meanest part.
Mankind's Guilt
The guilt of genocide in Germany and other
European countries before and during the world
war was the guilt of mankind, because man did
nothing to stop it, not even the initiation of an
effective moral action against the master killers
of all time. Here and there, even in the chan-
celleries and state departments around the globe,
expressions of sympathy for the Jews were made
while simultaneously the heads of governments,
including those in Moscow, were trying desper-:
ately to deal with Hitler. As we know, in 1938
they surrendered to him at Munich.
The really important thing about the Eich-
mann trial is: will man learn the lesson it sym-
bolizes? Will he ever again permit a stronger
group to destroy a mass of human beings again
as the Germans did the Jews? Will he heave the
sense and the morality to protect himself and
his own survival from such action?
Men have always made other men scape-.
goats for their own selfish reasons, usually polit-
cal power. Historically, the Jews have suffered
probably more than any other group, from ante-
Moses days to Spinoza to Disraeli to Einstein
to Oppenheim.
Creates Cultural Debit
Paradoxically, when we considered the po-
groms and the plunder of Jews throughout his-
tory, we must also state that they have con-
tributed as much, if not more, to world culture
and civilization than any other group. The geno-]
cide the Nazis perpetrated against them has only
created a cultural debit in the world, a debit
which may never be overcome.
It was the Jews in Europe under Hitler yes-
terday. It may be any other group, even the
U.S. Negro, tomorrow. It is always easy to blame
all trouble on any race, especially when it is
numerically weak.
It would be good for civilization if man could
understand the implications and the facts at the
bottom of the Eichmann trial. A history profes-
sor once said that civilization had not advanced
since Plato's time. To read the testimony of the
trial of the wizened face Nazi in Israel you would
have to say ha's really not moved forward at
all.
BROWN
