World On View On View
Embattled Little Rock
CHARLES H. LOEB H. LOEB
AMERICA IS INDEED A LAND OF
STRANGE CONTRADICTIONS. Certain-
ly no reader of the American press this
week could escape the paradox offered in
he unsolved lynching of a Negro man in
Mississippi and the election in Blooming-
ton, Indiana of a dazed, but happy Negro
co-ed as "Miss Indiana University".
•
Nancy
Streets, a 19-year-old sopho-
more from South Bend, Ind., is believed
the first of her race ever to win a beauty
campus.
More
queen contest on the 1U
significantly, she will compete for the "Miss
Indiana" title as part of this year's "Miss
America" contest.
ELSEWHERE IN THE NATION, and
perhaps in many world capitals, eyes are
focused on the continuing drama being
written in Little Rock, Arkansas. This is
the city that symbolizes to the world the
adamant southern resistance to the inte-
gration of the nation's public schools.
More so than the school bombings and as-
sociated violence in other states, the pho-
tos of soldiers, bayonets fixed, trying to
protect the right of black children to enter
the public schools, is indelibly etched in
the public mind.
You may be interested then, in the
most recent development in this tragic
city, still struggling with its problem, as
related in this week's. New York Times:
It is now more than eight months
since Gov. Orval E. Faubus of Arkansas
closed the four Little Rock high schools
rather than obey Supreme Court orders to
resume an integration program. Of the 3,-
665 students involved, 2,646 are attending
classes, most of them in private schools at
Little Rock, the rest in public schools
elsewhere; 440 are taking correspondence
courses; and 579 are doing neither. The
four schools stand idle.
THIS SITUATION has led to increas-
ing restiveness in Little Rock. Last Decem-
ber this was aggravated by the election of
a six-man school board (the old one re-|
signed) which found itself in deadlock
three pro-Faubus segregationists versus
three moderates who favor reopening the
schools with "controlled" integration.
The week before last the situation
took a dramatic turn at a board meeting
involving teachers' contracts for the next
school year. There was a row over indi-
vidual teachers quahfications, and the
three moderates walked out. The three
segregationists promptly dismissed forty
four teachers without explanation, presum-
ably because they sympathized with the
moderates
PROTESTS FLOODED in. For three
successive mights crowds jammed into el-
ementary school auditoriums Lo cheer!
speeches by the moderates. More than 170
business leaders met in the state's biggest
bank and organized themselves into STOP
the initials of Stop This Outrageous Purge.
They pledged $6,000 to fight the three seg-
regationist board members. Their principal!
weapon a state law that allows one recall
election a year.
LAST WEEK the battle gréw hotter.
STOP, circulating petitions for the recall
election, got 9,603 signatures, well above
the requirement of about 6.000. A segrega-
tionist mothers club, circulating petitions
for the recall of the three moderates. got
7,200 signatures. The petitions for both
sides were certified by the county clerk aid;
a date for the recall election set-May 25.
The Arkansas Gazette said, "It may
be that when the history of the Little Rock!
crisis is written, * * * May 6 (the day aft-
er the dismissals) will go into the record
as the turning point that led to the pres-|
ervation of the public schools and the re-
storation of this city's self-respect.
dav) saw the first broad public reaction a-
gainst the reckless course of Governor Fau-j
bus and his supporters." ·
(That
KATE
