Mother Of
Parker In
California
THIS IS MACK PARKER'S body after it was pulled
from the Pearl River and prepared for burial at a
Mississippi funeral home. The Chicago Daily Defender
prints this picture with great reluctance. This is not
the portrait of a Christian martyr slain in the backward
era of the Dark Ages. Above is the body of a young
American boy cut down in the flower of life in the mid-
dle of the "enlightened" Twentieth Century by a fiend-
ish mob which represents a decadent Southland. Mis-
loating in the Pearl River near Bogalusa, La. UPI UPI La. Bogalusa, near River Pearl the in
( Continued from Page 1)
(See Photo Page 2) See Photo Page 2)
Mrs. Eliza Parker, whose son
Mack Charles Parker, 23, w as
dragged screaming from a Poplar.
ville, Miss., jail cell by hooded
night riders April 25, is in se-
clusion at the Merced home of her
sister, Mrs. Lola Peters. She left
Mississippi Monday night, arriving
in Merced about Wednesday.
Mrs. Parker declined to discuss
her trip but her sister said she
had been threatened, but not by
any single person.
"She's real scared and won't
come to the telephone," said Mrs.
Peters.
"You can't blame her. She left
because threats were made against
her life."
Mrs. Peters said the NAACP
has promised to reimburse Mrs.
Parker for expenses involved in
making the trip from Mississippi
to California. Mrs. Peters said she
hoped her sister would be able to
visit with her without "further
difficulties."
Mrs. Parker's son had been
jailed on `a charge of raping a
white woman. His body was found
Monday in Pearl river. He had
been shot twice in the chest.
"Even before they dragged him
from jail I was afraid of what
might happen; Poplarville always.
has been a dangerous place," Mrs.
Parker said.
"After it happened," she said
See MOTHER, Page 2
mother
Mississippi ... Land Of Fear Fear Of Land ...
was to
Miss., jail by a mob of hooded men just two days before his trial
onen, Bullet riddled body was found by FBI agents and state troopers
See What Mob Did To Mack Parker What Mob Did To Mack Parker
FLAG-DRAPED CASKET containing body of lynch victim Mack Charles
Parker is lowered into grave during burial in country cemetery near
Lumberton, Miss. An Army veteran, Parker was accused of raping a
white woman. He was severely beaten and dragged from the Poplarvivlle,
sissippi authorities, in a hurry to hide their shame, at-
tempted to rush the body of Mack Parker into the earth
he had trod for 23 years. Defender photographer Her-
man Rhoden was rushed to Mississippi and managed to
get this picture in a funeral home before graveside rites
were held last week in Lumberton, only hours after the
body was found. And so in death, Mack Parker becomes
a.martyr. With this picture we write his epitah so that
generations unborn will know what they did to MACK
PARKER.
Veteran A To Thanks
Prot. Rob. Rob
rape charge. His body was
found Monday in the muddy
Pearl River, 20 miles from
Poplarville. Emmett Till,
(center) 14-year-old Chicago
boy; was found in the Tal-
lahatchie river, near Money,
Miss., in 1955. Till was kid-
MOST RECENT victim of Mis-
sissippi's "rope and faggot"
justice is Mack Charles Park-
er (left) of Lumberton, Miss.,
who was snatched from his
cell in the Poplarville, Miss.
jail two weeks ago, where he
was being held on a "weak"
naped after he allegedly
whistled at a white woman.
Question mark at right re-
presents thousands of Negroes
in Mississippi who live in fear
that they or their loved ones
may b. next victim of lynch
mob.
Ashi
