SEEING AND SAYING AND SAYING
By WILLIAM A. FOWLKES WILLIAM A. FOWLKES
Don't Leave Lynch-Beset Leaders Leave Lynch- Beset Leaders
MANY A NEGRO HAS BEEN lynched in the South because all
the other Negroes ran off and left him to the lynch mob. Many
of them would not have fallen victim, if their kinsmen compan.
ions and friends had taken the courage to stand their ground, tell
the truth, insist on justice, look for friends on the other side who
would help them, and even fight to the death, if necessary, to see
that right prevailed.
Thank God, such an attitude and spirit is changing in God, such an attitude and spirit changing is in
the South today. Perhaps it accounts for
fewer lynchings and continued entrees to
the good things of the earth put here by
the Almighty, developed and paid for by
the enterprise and taxes of man, yet often
withheld because of race, color and pre-
vious condition of servitude.
-0-
Such was the spirit behind the support giv.
en my good friend, John H. McCray, militant ed-
itor of The Lighthouse and Informer, who fell
into an uncomfortable situation even though he kept to the writ-
ten letter of the law in printing a South Carolina “justice" story.
Even before McCray came to trial on a charge of criminal libel,
his South Carolina friends had raised several thousand dollars
for his defense in admittedly hostile territory. They promised to
raise more than enough to pay the rather large fine imposed, the
attorneys' fees and the cost of court.
These South Carolinans did not run away and leave
McCray to the "lynch mob", to to speak. He would have
1 been ruined otherwise. Praises also go to those persons out-
side South Carolina who stood by a man who has done as
much to liberate modern South Carolina as any other living
man.
~O~
Negroes, least of all, cannot afford to see their leaders
lynched and sacrificed for the sake of prejudice, design, selfish-
ness, envy, littleness or any other qualities that make up the evil-
ness within "lynchers' minds. It takes too long and too much
spine and sinew to develop them. Down with lynchers, both in-
1 side and outside the race! Let us stand by the worthies!
