Another Georgia Disgrace Georgia Disgrace
(FROM THE NEW YORK HERALD TRIBUNE) TRIBUNE HERALD YORK NEW THE FROM
meidenG 216
Georgin is again in disgrace. The flagrant
Irwinton, where a Negro was taken out of jail and shot to
death, is only too familiar in detail. The fact that the crime
of lynching is almost at the point of disappearance makes the
Georgia occurrence all the more shocking. Last year there
were, by Tuskegee Institute's statistics, only two lynchings
in the entire country. Both, significantly enough, were in
Georgia, where white supremacy is a deliberate rallying cry
>
for political advancement. This is the state where a ragtail
version of the Ku-Klux Klan has again come to life, a new]"
and more subtle Talmadge is Governor, and a disturbing fa
pattern of racial violence is developing. It is a state of violents
contrasts. The prejudices of the forks of the creek account
for lynchings, although Atlanta refused to be upset by the
professional appearance of Jackie Robinson and more recent- t
ly forbade parades by masked nightshirts. But the recent
monopoly on lynchings is the focal point.
(
K
V
The Talmadge brand of progress, for all its intelligent v
efforts to make Georgia a better state, is devoted to white
supremacy. Governor Herman Talmadge was elected on that
platform, and he has moved fast and shrewdly toward es-
tablishing a political dynasty on this reprehensible basis.
Elsewhere the Negro is gaining the vote, and making him-
self heard. The white primary has been abolished, thanks to
the courts; the poll tax is generally fading; Negroes are be-
ing elected to city councils, boards of education and so on. But
in Georgia the right to the ballot is being contracted, not ex-
panded. By eliminating the voters' lists and requiring all to
register anew, most of the 120,000 Negro voters will be dropp-
ed somewhere along the line. The prospective voter is being
required to read the Constitution "intelligibly," write it
"legibly," or else respond satisfactorily to a statutory list of
questions on government. In practical operation, the scheme
effectively discourages the Negro, and the Talmudge organi-
zation makes no bonès about it.
The affair in the Irwinton jail was unspeakably crude
by comparison, but equally, callous. Both are the denial of
equal protection. Whether by bullet or statute, the repressive
effect is the same. One encourages the other; the coincidence
is inevitable. Georgia has gone backward.
t
r
