south of the mason-dixon of the mason- dixon
STATES REFUSE TO PUNISH LYNCHERS REFUSE TO PUNISH LYNCHERS
Two years or so ago a Negro in North Carolina was
lucky to save his life and the state the disgrace of a lynch-
ing by the combination of some phenomenal luck and fleet-
ness of foot. A short time ago a Negro in Louisiana was
saved from a nching because his would-be-lynchers were
casting lots, not for his garments, but
for the honor of being the one to plug
him with the fatal shot. During the
tedious (to the victim) lot-casting pro-
cess, the guest of honor got impatient and
weary and jumped into the river, rescu-
ing himself through swimming and hid-
ing.
But there was a third element in the
situation. The law officers charged with
Halliburton the safety of those awaiting due process
of the law had been apprised of the prisoner's abduction,
and they were so close in pursuit of the lynch-minded
crew and their intended victim that when the victim es-
caped the mob could not tarry long in search of him who
had taken to
this
been
no explanation offered as to why, if the sherif's posse
was so elose on the heels of the mob they did not capture
them. The three alleged abductors of the prisoner from
the jail have been arrested, however, and the sheriff prom-
ises arrest of the other mobsters.
othe
CONCORD MET
For a number of years now southern law officers have
in many cases been vigorous in he protection of t their
charges against mob violence. The big problem today is
the punishment of mobsters who try to get possession of
prisoners, who do get possession of them and lynch them,
and, in two cases at least who get them and lost them be-
fore they could carry out their aim. That is the primary.
indictment now laid against the lynching evil in the South.
TO
-
wit
142.
The machinery of justice has operated in recent years
up, to a point in various lynching cases. In many if not
most localities, peace officers act to prevent lynchings
1:
MASCON MA
SZA
PASSAGERS
where they have the obvious opportunity to do so. In one
By C. D. HALLIBURTON C. D. HALLIBURTON
notrious Georgia case no one was ever arrested or indict-
ed; in another Georgia case there was an indictment and
a mock trial. In a South Carolina case and in a North
Carolina case of attempted lynching, the mobster were
identified, indicted, and brought to trial, but freed by the
trial juries.
The writer of a letter to the Raleigh News and Ob-
server protests against Federal anti-lynching legislation
thus: "To make murder by lynching a Federal offense,
while the undisputed record tells us th
that this law has
been more effectively enforced than any other law against
murder in the State (and throughout the South).” His
argument that "laws" against lynching are the best en-
forced in the South is based on the fact that the general.
homicide rate is still high whereas lynchings have de-
creased "almost to the vanishing point.".
"
7
The letter writer is correct as to the decline in the in-
cidence of lynchings. It is also admittedly true that t
the
zeal of law enforcement officers in preventing lynchings,
and even in apprehending lynchers, has increased greatly
in the last quarter century or so, as has the weight of
public opinion against lynching as a means of dispensing
"justice." But it is still true that the indictment of lynch-
ers. lgs and that the conviction and punishment of mob-
sters is so rare as to be phenomenal,
S
N
Until mobsters can be punished as well as thwarted,
or apprehended, something more is needed for the elimi-
nation of the blot of lynching from the conscience of the
South and the nation. That a lynching was attempted
while southern senators were in the process of protesting
legislation against lynching, and in Louisiana so soon
after Senator Ellender of that state was heard in a na
tional broadcast against civil rights legislation, is glari
proof that the problem is not yet solved. Experience
dicates that the states are not yet ready to solve that part
PEYCHASINGLYE Wit
2000
s
WA
EREN POPED SA
of the problem having to do with adequate punishment of
ANY
members of lynching mobs.
