Sympathy For Monroe Children Children Monroe For
Deeply moved, as all civilized humans everywhere must
be, by the cruelty of the mass lynching of four Negroes-.
two women and two men-near Monroe, Georgia July 25.
the Chicago Council of Applied Religion with headquarters
at Evanston. Illinois, is making plans to establish an edu-
cational fund for the children of the lynch victims. From
Boston comes request from another foundation for the
names of the school-aze children of the lynch victims. in ər-
der that a permanent educational fund may be set up for
their education.
It is heartening, in the midst of the deep gloom for the
members of the immediate families, to know that there are
some friends, although they may be surrounded by heart-
less and unfriendly ones. This manifestation of interest
and sympathy toward these children should mean much to
Negroes generally. For, no matter how we may think, all
of us are potential victims of the lyuch-mob. That is why
our patience wears thin whe we hear Negroes, not to men-
tion Negro leaders who ought to know better, saying what
a Negro minister is reported to have said to his congregation
by advising that "maybe the church ought to stay out of a
thing like this." We agree with him if the purpose of his
church is to use his members as tools for his own vicious
ends to get money and to hold anniversaries. But if his
eburely is noftermad on the principles of the Prince of Peace.
then aid to the Morros unfortunates is its hirhest duty, ov-
en above his own food and shelter-at least for a period.
So let us all not only give to this fund to stem the
lynching tide but likewise volunteer whatever information
is needed to speed the removal of the lynen victims' children
and families away from such a community.
Edwin R. Embree, outlining the next step in Negro ad-
vancement, advised among other things. that Negroes
should: "Keep moving out of the South. There is no de-
cent life for all of you in the southern rurals so far as
the mind of man can see. You will have a hard time even in
—the North and West, but at leas, you'll have some freedoni.
You'll once in a while be treated as human beings. You'll have
decent schools for your children and some public and pro-
vision for recreation ... You'll have some opportunity for
work and professional practice in sections that are pros-
perous and progressive . . . Negrors should move out of the
South during this decade. Move North, my colored friends,
keep moving North and West."
At first reading, perhaps the average Negro icader
would not share the views of Mr: Embrec. But a knowledge
of the conditions under which Negroes are forced to live
in the rural areas would at once emphasize the validity of
reasoning. There simply is no security or safety for Ne-
groes in the rural South. Neither is there any liklihood
of any decent livlihood for
future..
at least in the immediate
