My MommaDon 'Tol' Mel MommaDon' Tol' Mel
By NEVER GIVEUP NEVER GIVEUP
"SELF-PRESERVATION IS THE
FIRST LAW OF NATURE”
NoT
JOT so long ago, a Southern mob decided to lynch a
Negro who was lodged in the town jail. They had
begun to batter down the door. The Sheriff, after his best
authoritative tones were ignored by the mob, did a most
unusual thing. He went to the Negro cell, unlocked it and
said, “Can you use a gun"? "Yes sir" was the reply. The
Sheriff handed over a loaded 45 and he and his prisoner,
standing side by side, began firing into the door that was
by then sagging under the mob's battering ram.
That intended lynching never came to pass. First, be
cause the Sheriff was a real Sheriff who seriously lived up.
to his oath to uphold the law. Second, because he knew
that this prisoner had a far greater interest in protecting
his own life than he, conscientious though he was, could
ever have. Moreover that the prisoner, given an oppor-
tunity to protect himself on anything like equal terms with
the mob, would thwart the lynchers-especially when he,
the guard, stood shoulder to shoulder with him. Such is the
strength of self-preservation.
1
This Sheriff didn't show any unusual intelligence, or psy-
chic power in solving this problem. The truth he drew
upon is as old as the hills. Every farmlad or country boy,
sees it in nature every day. Every little red schoolhouse
teaches it in the lowest grade. What the sheriff did show:
was an honest-to-God sincerity in his obligation to keep
his prisoner from harm.
All the leaders of the world know what this sheriff knew.
But few are sincere to the same degree when it comes to
protecting their wards, charges, colonials and subject peo-
ple.
Integrity in this sort of thing isn't born by experience
either, it seems. France in Indo-China, England in Malaya
wouldn't give the natives guns. French and English flags
don't wave there now.
England can't "trust" India with arins. The Boers can't: "trust."
the black native Africans with guns. The Japs are poised to striko
while India's teeming millions sit by helplessly. Ten million South
African Negroes are "protected" by an army of some hundred
and fifty thousand white soldiers.
The statesmen keep on saying to their "prisoners"; "Von't you
trust us? We are protecting you. Sure you're going to be free
when this is over. We are going to give you your freedom after
WE disperse the mob."
But natives and colonists know of self-preservation too. Be
sides, most of thein hare heard of a place called Czecho-Slovakia
that was not only protected": but ordered not to figlit on ITS
OWN behalf.
The whole thing is crystal clear. The United Nations over-
lords know.conclusively that the Nazi-Fascist mob can he quick-
ly and forever dispersed by mas the T
self-protection inter-
ests of these colonial people, hy
ghus. In hair stend
2:42
BEST
ast refusal to do this, the native sees that either the Four Free-
doms of the Atlantic Charter do not apply to them, or else Im-
perialists are reserving the right to change their minds when and
if they muddle through".
If the United Nations mean to extend freedom, democracy, and
self-government to all the peoples of the world, they will straight-
way give these subject colonial people guns. If there is integrity
and sincerity in their words, they have nothing fear from
doing
kplaat, Par
Cad
