Civic Leader Blames Alien
Groups For 'Lynch' Incident
LOS ANGELES, May 22-Claiming that small groups and subversive elements
were continuing to harp on a remedied situation, Rev. G. Albert Miller, chairman of the
Eastside Citizen's Committee, stated at an open hearing held before the members of the
Board of Education last Thursday that the effigy lynching of Negro students at Fremont
High school last February had been
thoroughly investigated and settled.
He further told those assembled
that his group had worked with
the District attorney's office and
the crime prevention bureau on the
case and laid the whole trouble to
persons outside the school who had
personal motives to cause interra-
cial disturbances.
STUDENT KELATIONS
HARMONIOUS
Since this happening,
studer
and
body presidents, of Jefferson
Fremont Highs have acted as ex-
change speakers. Good will ban-
quets between the institutions have
been held, and the athletic rivalry,
although keen, has been fair, and
clean. Several Negro students are
now attending the alleged seat of
trouble, Fremont High school, and.
according to this association, are
enjoying full rights and privileges..
This citizens' committes original-
ly organized through the efforts of
Pacific Coast offices of the Cour-
er, the California Eagle, and Rev.
Miller, have worked faithfully dur-
ing the past years in adjusting Ne-
gro problems within the school dis-
triet and have received the com-
mendation of the school board, the
Los Angeles, and Pacific Electric
Railways, the Coliseum manage-
ment, and the various law enforc-
ing agencies.
Also on hand at this board meet-
ing were a large group, consisting
of some 75 whites and a half dozen
Negroes, who claimed to represent
the Students Federation, the C. I.
O., and the Negro Congress. They
protested vigorously that justice
had not been done in this case and
they asked for a further open hear-
ing. They also demanded the sus-
pension of the principal and the
vice principal of Fremont and con-
demned the action of the police cap-
tain at the 77th Street Station who,
according to them, stated that he
did not have time "to settle the
and
problems of Negroes
white trash.”
poor
