A TIMELY OBSERVATION OBSERVATION TIMELY
**Segregation in its worst form was very pointedly present-
ed to the recent convention of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People in Detroit, by Dr. Louis T.
Wright of New York City. He branded as murder and lynch-
ing, the neglect of Negro health by the regularly constituted
agencies and condemned in forthright language, the restric-
tions placed upon the training of Negro doctors and nurses.
over the
Doctors and sociologists have made much ado
high death rate among Negrocs. Few of them have stopped to
find out the reason why, or, if they knew, because of prejudice,
refused to make their findings known.
In attacking the facts of segregation, restrictions and de-
nial of services to Negroes, Dr. Wright strikes at the seat of
our health trouble. Negroes' health is no better and no worse
than that of any other group which lives under the same con-
ditions.
Not only do we suffer poor health because of where and
how we live, but also, because the best teaching and practice
facilities are not open to our young men and women.
We heartily agree with Dr. Wright, when he says: "We
demand that every medical school in the country open its doors
without segregation, to qualified Negro students who are can-
didates for admission and that they be given every clinical
We de-
„privilege without any covert or subtle restrictions.
mand their admission to every established hospital for intern-
ship and post graduate training. We demand their appoint-
ment and placentent on the staff's of these institutions on the
basis of merit; and we will fight every little cheap artifice and
tricky device which deprives them of these opportunities be-
cause of color."
Cleveland is one of the very few cities, where a big muni-
cipal hospital opens its nurse training school to Negro girls
without discrimination, accepts Negro interns and has a Negro
surgeon on its staff.
While the gains we have made here in this direction, do
¸ not represent a Utopia in any sense of the word, they do show
a beginning. If more cities would follow this example, it
would be easier for us to move faster here.
Poor health of any group is a liability to the nation.
