Governor Graves Redeems Alabama Graves Redeems Alabama
BITTERLY infuriated because a nineteen year old girl had
been assaulted and murdered by Some one, a moh formed Sun-
day near Huntsville, Alabama, bent upon the lynching of thre
colored men for a crime committed by one man. The quick
action of Governor Bibb Graves of Alabama saved the name
of Alabama, already enmeshed in its Scottsborg affair.
After receiving notice of the crime, the governor quickly
dispatched the state militia to the scene with orders to protet
the suspects. The men were taken from an angry mob and taken
to quarters for safekeeping.
In this case it is alleged that one man committed the oi-
fense, while it is highly questionable as to whether either of th
three under arrest is the guilty party.
This is among the dangers in lynching. So angry was the
mob it would have lynched am Negro answering remotely the
description. It was wild bloodthirsty and bent on revenge from
ven
any source..
When men are placed in the custody of the day, there is :
chance of finding the guilty party. Megive, circumstances. ani
many angles are threshed out and it has turned out in the past
that many crimes laid to Negroes were committed by somebody
else. Lynching has been used to cover up crime as well as fo
the punishment of crime. It saves the guilty party of embarrass.
ment and fortifies him forever from the real truth.
Thus far, Governor Graves has started the thing well on
the right road. It is highly possible that the courts will have a
say so in this matter and if the men are innocent, it will pr
cted to find the guilty party.
Murder should be punished. If the men or any one of them
are guilty, they should, pay the supreme penalty. Our society
is too old now and our institutions are too well rooted in the
popular fabric for any one to wink at murder, whether upon ar
mocent girl or mass murder perpetrated under the hood of the
mob.
While we have had cases of judicial murder, w, much pre
fer that medium to that of a few men taking the law in their
own hands and meting out what they call justice, by night at the
end of the hemp.
Like cannibalisnı and other distant practices that have been
laid aside long ago because the people got tired and ashamed of
them, lynching will cease. It will take time and education to
break it up. Prohibition laws have been found to be useless un-
Jus there is an abiding sentiment to back them up.
With more courageous governors like Governor Graves and
such liberal papers as the Charlotte News, the Macon Telegraph.
and many others, there will in time awaken a sentiment which
will relegate lynching to the rear, making the people tired and .
ashamed of it.
While Governor Graves has done no more than his plain
duty, he is in line for a rousing ovation for his cottrage and
the assertion that Alabama is on the side of law and order.
:
