LYNCHING AND “THE WILL OF THE PEOPLE” AND “ THE WILL OF THE PEOPLE ”
(From The Arizona Daily Star) From The Arizona Daily Star)
After the recent lynching of two Negro boys in Texas the county
attorney of the county in which the act took place justified the act
on the grounds that it "represented the will of the people." For
an officer of the law charged with protecting life under the law,
for an official trained and educated in the need of lawful processes
in civilized life, to condone such an act is bad enough, but for him
to justify it on the spurious grounds that it "represented the will of
the people" is such a grievous dereliction from duty, and is so
fraught with future danger, that it demands an immediate challenge,
and an explanation of possible consequences.
The safety of all people, not merely that of the Negroes is at
stake. If mob action can be used to justify this particular act, be-
cause it "represents the will of the people," it can be used to justify
an infinite variety of other acts Down through the centuries of
history "the will of the peoplé" has been used to justify hideous and
monstrous crimes. Even Pilate surrendered Christ, because the mob
demanded it. In Germany today, "the will of the people" is used
to excuse the cruel punishment of those who merely express different
political opinions, and to justify the shameful treatinent of another
group because they have certain blood in their veins. In Russia, too,
only last May, 117 individuals were summarily executed, because
they were accused of having different political beliefs than the rul-
ing hierarchy. And all of these acts were done because they repre-
sented "the will of the people."
This is a serious matter. Many of us lightly gloss over it be-
cause we do not stop to think of its possible consequences-because
we have not suffered. But the founders of our country and their
ancestors in England knew from personal experience and personal
sufferings how "the will of the people" as expressed mob action,
can be used to justify oppression. And it was largely from this per-
sonal experience and personal knowledge that they adopted a written
constitution as a basic means of protecting themselves and their pos-
terity from the arbitrary action sponsored by mob rule. Mobs that
today lynch Negroes, can later be diverted to lynch other people who
might dare to express independent thought.
Most certainly the execution of these two Negro boys did not
"represent the will of the people." It represented the passions of
the people aroused to beast intensity. If those Texas people only
realized how the precedent they established might at some time re-
turn to plague` them, to justify the act of another kind of mob in
depriving them of certain rights or even of their lives, they would
not condone such action. They would be willing to allow the law to
take its course. Assume that the two boys were guilty, they were en-
titled to a fair trial, and the protection of the federal constitution.
The time has come when this shameful blot on American life
must be removed. When State authorities refuse to give protection,
when they brazenly justify the denial of constitutional rights to the
weak and penniless, it becomes the duty of the federal government
to assert itself. When bok and daring gangsters, by kidnaping and
bank robberies, assaulted the citadels of wealth and power, the fed-
eral government acted with alacrity. It raised and trained an en-
tirely new force of anforcement officials. Why cannot this same ma-
chinery be used to defend the constitutional rights of the weak and
friendless? A few.prison terms for mob leaders would soon bring
a halt to this barbaric action.
The safety of all people is at stake. American principles of gov-
ernment with their protection of life and property is at stake. The
beastly and hocdlum passions of a mob do not represent "the will of
the people." They represent a temporary reversion to barþarism.
They can be used for acts other than the lynching of Negroes. That
is why an early end to this disgraceful practice must be made. ·
