When Lynching Becomes Commonplace Lynching Becomes Commonplace
By DAVID JONES DAVID JONES
The lynching of Negroes in the state of Mis-
sissippi has become so commonplace and trite that
it has been turned into just a laughing matter.
3
}
So savage and barbarous, so utterly devoid of the
finer parts that are very evident in cultured and
refined people and which go to make up the datum
posts of civilization, are they that they are murder-
ing Negro now without the slightest twinge of
A prosperous Negro in the state is considered
an evil example to be gotten rid of by fair or foul
means, and is just about as welcomed as the pro-
verbial bull in a china shop-and particularly if
he refuses to stand still while he is being skinned.
William Evans, a white farmer near Tyrone's
farm, it is said, has been trying several methods to
separate Tyrone from the produce of the years of
hard toil and deprivation which Tyrone has under-
> gone in his effort to raise himself and his family
above lack and indigence.
}
These several attempts to take away his life's
earnings were hotly resented by Tyrone, and he
has been brave enough to hold off the voracious
whites by going armed whenever he had to leave
his home. While walking along the county road on
r his way to Monticello, Tyrone was accosted by
Evans, who was sitting on the gallery, concerning
some matters that have not yet been divulged.
Evans is not talking for publication, not yet, as
1
conscience.
They are now calling it suicide by coroner's
verdict when Negroes are lynched in this state.
The body of R. J. Tyrone, a prosperous Negro
farmer of Lawrence County, was found shot to
pieces in the woods by his house on the night of
the 25 of March, where he had been lynched by a
mob of whites about the 22nd of the same month
the body having lain there since that time.
There are quite a number of prosperous Negroes
in that county who by stint and the practice of
economy have placed themselves far above depen-
dence upon the whites of that locality and are liv.
ing above want and need.
Tyrone was among that number. And since
the race is not expected to prosper and their
prosperity not only excites the wonder of their
white neighbors, but also their vicious envy, and
arouses in them a desire for the exploitation on
their part, he was marked for slaughter.
he is too busy chasing and heating Negrocs-he
has not caught his breath.
Tyrone has been lynched.
Still it could be seen from afar that Tyrone
was resenting something that Evans was at-
tempting to force on him and that for his
audacity in refusing to obey and acquiesce,
Evans determined to chastise him.
Tyrone resisted and having armed himself for
just such occasions as this was compelled to shoot
Evans, slightly wounding him, in order to save
his own life.
Evans was carried to Jackson for attention to
his slight wounds at the hospital there.
In the meanwhile the mob formed, and the man
hunt in general for Negroes began, during which
hunt Tyrone was lynched by the mob and left in
the woods where his body was found some days
afterwards.
When the coroner's jury was summoned to hold
the inquest over the dead body of Tyrone, they
promptly returned a verdict of "Suicide."
And this is a so-called civilized nation of people.
The remnant of Tyrone's family had been found
up to a few days past, though sympathetic Negroes
are exercising their best endeavors to have them
taken away to some place of safety before the
mob makes another attempt to wreak vengeance
upon them, and this at the peril of their own lives,
for if the mob learns that any Negro gives them
food, water or shelter, it will be woe to them.
The women of his family fled rather than
face the ordeal of being stripped naked by a
riotous mob of whites, knowing that after be-
ing exposed in such a state to the public view
of hundreds of men, the external organs of
their bodies would be crushed and beaten until
they fainted from the agony.
The county around is in a seething turmoil, for
Lawrence County is just adjoining the "Slaughter
Pen" that is Lincoln County,--so named from the
great number of Negroes that were slain during
the white cap regime about forty years ago.
Negroes are afraid to come out in the open dur-
ing the daytime and still more fearful to remain
in their houses during the nighttime.
Women and girls are hiding in every place of
concealment dreading the inhuman bestiality from
which they will have to suffer if caught by the mob,
and from which nothing save a miraculous power
can ever save them.
Hattiesburg, Miss.
