I
:
Harlem Sketchbook Harlem Sketchbook
THEOPHILUS By LEWIS
Storm Signals. Signals.
ENERALLY SPEAKING, thoughtful observers of
Anyone who has made a serious study of the
American people knows they are ripe for an upheaval
There exist among them a number of deep-seated and
highly inflammable race and religious prejudices. This
latent group hostility has recently been aggravated by
incipient class friction caused by the depression. Class.
unrest and group bostility tend to neutralize each
other to an extent, but at the same time they intensify
each other, resulting in a complication of smoldering
discontent. So long as it remains unorganized this
discontent will vent itself in sporadic and relatively
harmless outbursts, overturning a milk truck here.
breaking up a foreclosure sale there, lynching some
hapless fellow over yonder. But these spontaneous
outbreaks of violence are only dark clouds scudding
before the wind, warning us that real hurricane
weather is on the way.
It would be a greve error for 2 social analyst to
mistake last week's disorders for mere outbursts of
local passion in which only the so-called lawless ele-
ment participated. The disturbances brought to light
a social sickness of which careful observers have long
been aware; that is, the existence of a latent, country-
wide mob spirit which threatens to engulf the nation
in a period of mob rule. We are faced with the dan-
ger that the excesses and mercurial passions of the
mob will be crystallized in the processes of the law, the
verdict of the court becoming the mere echo of the
clamor of the rabble. Indeed, the law itself may be-
come simply the codified crotchets of the crowd.
Certainly that is the lesson the tabloid pictures
from California and Maryland gave the country. The
pictures from the coast showed throngs of women and
children looking on with interest and approval while
men methodically went about the business of battering
in the prison doors and dragging out the victims. The
pictures from the Free State showed the citizenry
turning out en masse to rescue men whom soldiers had
arrested for taking part in a lynching. While the men
who took part in lynchings and riots in defense of
lynchers were applauded by their fellow citizens on
the scene condoning editorials and letters of approba-
tion appeared in newspaers in distant sections of the
country. The New York Herald Tribune condemned
the California lynching in a strong editorial, but s
few days later I read five letters from readers who
disagreed with the paper and either approved the
lynching or condoned it.
Sull more significant, perhaps, is the attitude of
public officials towards mobs. Politicians are usually
shrewd diagnosticians of public sentiment. The only
unusual thing about Governor Rolph's frank con-
nivance with the California mob was his plain speech.
Governors, sherids, prosecuting attorneys and judges
in other sections of the country have shown by their
actions that they share his reluctarce to defy a mob.
The jall in San Jose was defended by fifty armed
deputies, but they refused to fire a single shot in de-
fense of their prisoners. A day later when a Missour!
mob lynched Lloyd Warner the mob fired on the jail,
but the sheriff and his deputies would not return their
Are. In Maryland the nineteen state troopers guarding
Armwood refused to fire on the lynchers. Worse, a
judge had him brought from the Baltimore jail, where
he was safe, to the Eastern Shore, where the mot
could reach tim. When the governor of the state had
men charged with being members of the mob arrested
the same judge issued writs of habeas corpus to set
them at liberty. In short, there is a widespread ten-
dency on the part of judges, sheriffs, prosecutors and
other agents of the law to make themselves mere in-
struments to assist mobs in defying the law.
→
Impasse of Local Sentiment.
T IS MUCH EASIER to describe the breakdown of
the law than to suggest a remédy. Some people
are of the opinion that now is a propitious time to
renew agitation for the passage of a Federal anti-
lynching law. I am in full sympathy with the more-
ment, but doubt that there is much hope of getting
such a law enacted. Mass disorder is no longer sec-
tional; it is courtry-wide. The same public approva!
that prevents sheriffs and militiamen from effectively
resisting lynchers is likely to prevent congressmen
from making it a Federal crime.
6
If an anti-lynching law is passed by Congress the
problem of enforcement will not be an easy one to
solve. Such a law would give the President the right
to employ Federal troops to protect a man from a
mob, an authority which he does not possess at pres-
ent, and professional soldiers would not hesitate to
fire on a mob if it were necessary. But the army is too
small to perform that kind of police work and the
actual defense of prisoners would fall on the shoulders
of Federal marshals. The marshals would have to
deputize citizens of the community where the prisoner
needed protection and the deputies would be subject
to the same local influences which now paralyze sher-
iffs, state troopers and militia. Members of mets
would have to be tried before local juries, too; a fact
that would make it practically impossible to obtain a
conviction. But, no matter how badly a Federal anti-
lynching law works, conditions cannot be any worse,
from a legal standpoint, than they are at present.
Besides agitation for a Federal anti-lynching law.
even if it falls, may avert a disaster worse than such
explosions of mass temper as occurred last week.
Unless something is quickly done to bring liberal forces
together in a united front there is a danger that some
charlatan of Hitler's type and abliity may convert the
latent mob spirit into a political crusade.
It does not require any excess of imagination to
envisage coine brass-voiced prophet of the hinterland
proclaiming that Jew noney and nigger labor are the
twin causes of the nation's economic ills. The ob
spirit abroad in the country is just so much tinder
waiting for some demagogue to come along with a
match. Minority groups had better start pouring
water on it now. If we don't, we are likely to wake
up tome morning and find a mob of clodhopper atorm
troops pouring oil on us,
