Other Papers Say— Papers Say—
AMERICANISM IN ACTION IN ACTION
11. Ποια Tomorrox] Ποια Tomorrox]
No more danming indictment of American
society can be drawn than the unadorned de-
scription of a lynching party. On Wednes-
day a mob of 2,000 persons at Princess Anne.
Md., battered down the jail door and dragged
out George Armwood, who was accused of as-
saulting an aged white women. The Negro
prisoner was hanged from the limb of a tree
directly in front of the home of Judge Duer.
His body was then dragged half a mile along
Main St. to a blazing pile in the center of the
street and bere burned. Here is the way the
lynching was described by the Associated
Press:
"The marchi to the scene of the lynching of
Armwood was wild in the extreme. The mob
members seemed crazed, continually leaping
on the Negro, even after he fell to the ground
and was unable to rise. One boy, apparently
about 18 years old, slashed the Negro's car al-
most off with a knife. Under the oak tree,
despite the presence of women and children,
all the victim's clothes were torn from his body
and he hung there for some minutes nude."
The victim may have been guilty, although
it is the responsibility of a court of law to
decide that question. Even if Armwood com-
mitted the atrocious assault with which he was
charged. lynching is utterly indefensible on
The leaders of the mob are
every count.
known to hundreds of citizens and should
forthwith he dealt with by the law for this
act of ferocious lawlessness. But it must be
admitted that there is little likelihood that any
member of the moh will ever be convicted.
If the matter is left in the hands of local au-
thorities, popular passion will prevent effective
action. The experience of half a century makes
imperative the enactment of a federal anti-
lynching law. Nowhere else in the world is
lynching such an ingrained habit as in the
United States. And this ghastly manifestation
of Americanism can be stamped out only by
national legislation, supported by aroused pub-
lic opinion. Until this cancer is cut out of
our society, we had better lower our voices
when we denounce the savagery of foreign
dictators.
