Official Indifference Responsible For
Lynching
N initiating the policy of exposing the condi-
tions under which lynchings take place the
Federal Council of Churches is rendering a na-
tional service. A special investigator was sent
to Maryville, Missouri, after a Negro was chained;
to the top of a schoolhouse saturated with oil, |
and burned to death. It was found that here in
a town of 3,000 inhabitants were eight churches,
a college of 500 students, and a town charac-
terized as "thriving." Yet two-fifths of the popu-
lation, women and children predominating,
“reveled” in the spectacle, crying "not for justice
but for blood."
A Congregational minister living 60 miles from
Schafer, N. D., was asked to conduct the investi-
gation of the lynching of Bannon, a white man,
22 years old, on January 29th. And it would be
difficult to find a more glaring case of official in-
difference and incompetence. Bannon, who was
admittedly mentally abnormal, had confessed to
the murder of six members of a family for whom
he worked. He was arrested and placed in jail
in an adjoining county for, safe keeping both be-
cause feeling was running high and the Macken-
sie County jail was so unsafe that the sheriff
himself said "anyone can get out of that jail
with a rubber comb."
Now here is where criminal negligence comes
in. A week before the trial, over the protest of
the defense attorney, the State's Attorney or-
dered Bannon back to Schafer supposedly for
questioning and placed him in this worthless jail.
One unarmed deputy was ordered to keep guard
so the mob which had been denied its victim now.
had him presented to it on a silver platter. That
night the mob came, took Bannon, and strung him
from a railroad bridge.
This lynching is directly chargeable to official
indifference-amounting to criminal negligence.
The State's Attorney ordered the prisoner from a
safe jail to an unsafe one, his excuse being that
no one had warned him of the approaching crime.
Why, of course not! And mind you, the mob was
made up in the very town in which he lived. The
sheriff took absolutely no precautions for protect-
[ing his prisoner in spite of the fact that he knew
that feeling was running high. The Governor,
who appeared to be ignorant of the whole state
of affairs, has made the usual promise of an in-
vestigation, but up to the present time no results
have been forthcoming and none will be. If he
meant business he would have begun with his
State's Attorney and proceeded next to the sheriff.
Perhaps the fact that a revival meeting was in
progress in the town from which the lynching
party set out may have given added impetus to
the lynching party. At any rate it is a sad com-
mentary upon present day Christianity. The only
minister who interested himself in the case was
the pastor of Bannon's mother, and he to the
extent of obtaining a confession.
If the Federal Council of Churches keeps up
these investigations it will find that the majority
of lynchings are easily preventable where officials
are determined and alert, and on the contrary
they are easily perpetuated in the face of official
indifference, which leads us to the conclusion that
when pressure is applied here the country will
begin to see some results.
