NEVERTHELESS A TRIAL, NEVERTHELESS TRIAL,
has been said against mob violence and lynch-|
mended. It must be remembered that white people never take
their offices seriously when they are called upon to function
in behalf of a Negro, so we may not expect our Southern
courts to grow too enthusiastic at the trial of any Negro,
regardless of his innocence-but a beginning is better than
nothing. We have had such a beginning in some parts of the
South, and Tennessee and Kentucky offer us a sample of that
beginning.
Recently in Kentucky, down in McCracken County, one
Sam McGee, a Negro, was tried and convicted of murder. The
hest report of the trial runs something after the following:
The prisoner, under heavy guard, entered a plea of not guilty.
whereupon the court selected an attorney to defend the pris-
oner. The Commonwealth proceeded to offer its testimony,
which consisted of persons who identified the defendant and
connected him with the shooting, and, following this testimony
by the Commonwealth, the defense offered nothing. The court
proceeded to charge the jury, and it took the jury one hour
to decide the guilt of the defendant. Here is a case where
the South is trying to give Negroes accused of crime against
white people a fair and impartial trial. This is a beginning.
Quite feeble, we admit, and decidedly an inadequate expression
of the law, but it is a beginning.
Down in Tennessee another Negro, Flowers by name, was
charged with murder. He was brought into court, and the
witness who was relied upon to support the charge of murder
against the defendant was a man who had served a prison term
and whose citizenship had been taken from him, thus dis-
qualifying him to give competent testimony in any court.
When the disqualifications of this witness were brought to the
attention of the judge, he ruled out all such testimony, and
there was nothing to do but direct an acquittal of the defend-
ant. This is another attempt to give Negroes a fair and im-
partial-trial. This attempt appears to us more serious and
sincere than the attempt made in McCracken County, Kentucky.
Just think of what might have happened in either one
of these cases if no attempt had been made to protect these
defendants and to give them some sort of a trial. We admit
that the Southern courts do not take themselves seriously when
they are trying Negroes, but we recite the instances above
simply as an indication that the South, while not giving Negroes
serious attention in the courts, is attempting to give them
"trials." These trials are not one hundred percent perfect,
but they are trials, nevertheless.
