Middle-Aged Woman Looks On While
Young White Lover Slays Her Husband
Columbia, South Carolina, Scene of Many
Mob Atrocities and Stamping Ground of
Blease, Has Tragic Triangle
COLUMBIA, S. C., Sept. 15 (ANP).—In this section of the
country where laws prohibit white women from marrying col-
ored men and mobs lynch colored men accused of or caught as-
sociating with white women, but where white men are permitted
to carry on "after-dark and back door love affairs" with colored
women, there has come to light a love affair which not only re-
vealed the affection existing between the principals, but also that
the white man was enjoying the proceeds of his colored sweet-
heart's labors.
4
The eternal triangle, possessing one
"white side" and two darker ones,
was composed of Eugene Canon, a 46-
year-old farmer; his wife, Mary Belle,
one year his junior, and Wilbur Hol-
ley, a 23-year-old white youth, who
was infatuated with Mrs. Canon.
For months neighbors have ob-
served young Holley visiting the Ca-
non home and driving the automo-
bile while she delivered her "wash-
ing" each week. Rumor had it that
the elderly woman lavished gifts of
varlous values on her youthful and
white lover while her husband strug-
gled to make ends meet.
The 46-year-old husband was shot
down and killed by the white youth
Sunday morning, following an argu-
ment between the two men over the
affections of the woman. At first
the killing was a mystery. Neigh-
bors heard the shots. The body was
found and the usual verdict of "kill-
ed by unknown parties" was in the
making.
The investigating officers turned
their suspicious to the home of Hol-
ley, where they found a dew-spat-
tered shotgun, which had been re-
cently fired. The calibre of the gun
tallied with that from which the
death-dealing shell had been fired
and young Holley was placed under
arrest.
The youth at first denied that he
had killed Canon, but under cross-
examination confessed that he had
fired the fatal shot.
Testimony by the youth and his
elderly sweetheart brought out the
fact that on Saturday evening young
Holley had gone with Mrs. Canon,
as usual, to deliver several "wash-
ings." En route home they bought
a few drinks and took a ride to sober
up a bit.
In the meantime, the tired husband
was awaiting his soulmate. She ar-
rived about midnight in company
with her white lover. He upbraided
both of them and threatened to kill
the youth.
Just as dawn was breaking Bunday
morning Canon was aroused by a
noise on the outside and went to in-
vestigate. As Canon reached the door-
step & shot was fired and he fell to
the ground mortally wounded from
gunshot wound inflicted by his wife's
lover while she stood by the white
youth's side.
Holley was held, charged with mura,
der in the dr degres. The woman!
is being held as an accomplice.
A study of the dead man's effects,
revealed that he had a trife more
than $1,000 worth of life insurance
of which his wife is named the bene
Aciary.
