Observations
The Trend of Current
Thought and Discussion
Shall We Pray or Think? or Think? We Pray
By FRANK R. CROSSWAITH CROSSWAITH FRANK R.
so very long ago there was
latter,. it was the general bellef that
America was about to relinquish her
long enjoyed monopoly in the one in-
dustry that is peculiarly native,
namely, the delicate art of torturing
and roasting alive men, women and
children.
Many other Americans believed
that the sudden drop in the number
of lynchings in the years above men-
tioned as compared with the record
of previous years was an indication
that America was about seriously to
consider her claim to a place in the
universal parliament of civilized na-
tions: that the national conscience
had at last been awakened to a fact
that a wide chasm existed between
the nation's chatter about "law and
order," "freedom," "liberty" and "jus-
tice." and was therefore about to
square her deeds with her words.
Hardly had the breeze lifted sky-
ward the last faint note of this pre-
mature "te deum" of thanks and hope
unfounded, than we are brought face
to face with the fact that a leopard
cannot change its spots. Lynching
is evidently on the increase again.
To date about ten persons have been
done to death by mobs during the
present year.
It seems likely that 1920 will reg-
ister a "bumper crop" in bleached
bones and charred bodies of Negroes
claiming allegiance to Old Glory. The
perpetrators of lynching are becom-
ing holder in their dastardly deeds
and their methods more helnous and
revolting. Obviously, also a new
technique is being developed and the
lynchers seemed determined to give
to the world another lesson in Amer-
ican efiletericy.
No one will seriously deny that
there is evidence of improvement,
artistry and finesse today over the
good old days when lynching was an
infant Industry in the "land of the
free and home of the brave." Long
ago lynchers hunted in packs for their
victim; today, it is said, that soldiers,
policemen and guardsmen 1rst cap-
ture the victim and bring him within
easy reach of the mob, even gover-
nors and other high oficials of the
state are said to aid and abet the
mob by issulng orders to militia men
and sheriffs to "hold the Negro," but
be careful and not shoot any member
of the mob),
denied.
Long ago the mul, used to take
their victim from a lone sheriff who in
many instances was not upposed to
delivering his charge: today the moh
takes the victim from an army of
soldiers whose sense of discipline and
unwavering loyalty to southern tradi-
tion make them somewhat hesitant
deliberately to turn the victim over
to the mob. instead they lock him in
asteel vault manacled. The vault is
then set on fire and the victim is
slowly baked to death. This innovA-
tion relieves the mob of the disgust-
ing job of looking on the quivering
body as the flames lash and burn it.
The superiority of this method over
the old where hundreds of blue-eyed,
flaxen-haired, civilized white Ameri-
cans were forced to sniff the foul air¡
emanating from the burning body of
a human being cannot be
Also in the days of yore the victim's
family and friends were compelled to
fetch the carcass, of their loved ones
from the scene of death. This task
the mob today performs in modern
fashion. The burnt and emaciated
carcass is tied to an automobils and
dragged through the streets into the
Negro quarters, where it is more cas-
ily accessible to friends and relatives.
In the past, with their victim in
hand, the mob would then soak his
clothing with kerosene oil, bind him
with chains to some old stump, fagots
would be heaped around him drenched
with oil. The crowd would then stand
back while a photographer would take
pictures of the chained Negro, after
which the fagots would be lighted.
And when it was all over the mob
would night among themselves for the
bones of the Negro as souvenirs. One
member of a mob at Huntsville, Ala..
many years ago is said to have cut
off the fingers of a Neg victim as
souvenirs. On another occasion, the
ear of a Negro boy was cut off and
he was also unsexed. Later, a mol
took the torso, hung it by a rope over
the pummel of a saddle and dragged
it through the streets of a city in
Texas. Today, such wanton waste of
time and energy in lynching a human
being are avoided, and since lynching
has now become commonplace, sou-
venirs are no longer sought.
If the rest of the world does not
begin soon to compete with "God's
country" in the lynching industry our
monopolistic grip will remain undis-
turbed for centuries to come, provid-
ing the art itself does not become
a lost one because of a lack of com-
petition, which, we are told, is the life
of trade, of be destroyed by "prayer"
which some Negro leaders still advo-
cate as the answer to lynching.
Which shall it be, let us pray or let
us think?,.
