A Lynching Platform Platform Lynching
S
ENATOR COLE BLEASE has put his native
state of South Carolina in a bad position. Varda-
man and Tillman declaimed against the Negro;
but Blease is the first Southern Senator openly to ad-
vocate the lynching of Negroes. In his recent address
at Union, S. C., asking the people of South Carolina to
return him to the Senate, he boasted that when he was
governor of the state he never tried to protect NegroesENATOR
from mobs; he pictured the United States Constitu-
tion as endangering the virtue of white women and
said, "To hell with the Constitution." Indirectly he
advocated continued lynching as the proper reply for
the South to make to the rejection of Judge John J.
Parker's candidacy for the Supreme Court, saying:
"You have had in the United States since Parker's de-
feat eleven lynchings and you will have more."
BLEASE'S RIVALS are more sensible. James F.
Byrnes rightly said that the South is giving too much
attention to liquor and the Negro and too little to solv-
ing its economic problems. Another candidate con-
tented himself with saying: "Blease is full of bunk."
The Charleston News and Courier is perturbed because
Blease has made lynching the issue of the campaign,
and says that South Carolina cannot renominate Blease
without indorsing lynching. It says that Blease has
given the N. A. A. C. P. and other Negro agitators a
weapon to use in their fight for the trial of lynchers
in Federal courts.
BLEASE has done that and more; he has made
it the moral duty of the United States Senate to refuse
to seat him if he should be re-elected. The Senate un-
seated or refused seats to Newberry of Michigan, Lori-
mer of Illinois and Vare of Pennsylvania because of the
large expenditure of money in their campaigns for the
Senate, though these men and their supporters had
done nothing in violation of the Constitution. If these
men deserved rejection, what must be said of a man
who defies the Constitution spiritually and literally?
The Senate cannot afford to have a member who has
been elected on a lynching platform.
