JUST GIVE THEM TIME TIME THEM GIVE
(Thin Wonk's Cartoon) Thin Wonk's Cartoon)
White supremacy, mobe, lynchings, anarchy,
Bavagery, chaos, wars and oblivion. Those
steps, representing the trend of present-day
thought, indicate the way the wind is blow-
ing. First comes the old hue and cry that the
white race is superior to all others-that it
suust maintain its supremacy at all costs, even
at the sacrifice of justice and decency-that
mobs and lynchings are necessary to maintain
this supremacy-that intimidation forms an
integral part of that program, and that other
races must be forever trampled under foot.
Intolerance describes this spirit, and the
Ku Klux Klan represents it. With the view
to carry out the idea of white supremacy,
Kluxism operates on the theory that it must
resort to mob rule and lynchings. First, it
vents its spleen upon members of all races
that cannot identify themselves with the race
that sponsors Kluxism. It specializes in mem-
hers of the black race, not because it has a
greater grievance against this group than
against others. but because the latter group
is more defenseless. Klansmen know they
never have to give an account of their deeds
against black men and women.
But intolerance, like the savage beast it is.
knows no bounds-sets no limits to its activ-
ities. Therefore it soon takes under its scope
of directions members of the race that gave
it birth. There is much more of a thrill de-
rived from beating white men and women-
they furnish an element of real suspense. So
the mob reasons.
And for these reasons the mob is making
its last stand. It now has made the circle
and is back to the starting point. It is
doomed to fall-and with it all thoughts of the
white supremacy it sought by force to foist
upon the world. It is already falling into the
grave dug for others and, unwittingly, for
itself. The white man who silently witnessed
Klan depredations, Klux invasions into realms
of government-but who said nothing because
he was not injured, now cries unroariously for
something to be done. He not only asks that
it be done, but he is seeing that it is done.
We now have but to wait to see the results
of this new interest on the parts of "good
white citizens" of America.
intolerance will lose
because it is
wrong cannot
It will fail be-
And
wrong. It will lose hecanse
forever prevail over right.
cause it is now back to its source-back at
the foot of the white man who nurtured it
and sent it forth to destroy the world. We
now wait patiently, for the end is in sight.
