The Need For A Federal Anti-
Lynching Law
(From The Record, Seattle, Wash., Dec. 6, 1926) 1926) Dec. 6, Wash., Seattle, Record, The From
Lynchings, which in the last two years have
shown a gratifying decline, are again on the way
up in the United States. One of the most hor-
rible crimes in recent years was the triple
lynching of three Negroes in South Carolina
These victims were taken from the jail and
killed, although one of them had just been de-
clared innocent after trial, and the other two,
a new trial.
one a woman, had been granted
It is alleged that the police officers were ac-
complices in this crime. The public authorities
of South Carolina were as usual doing nothing
until Walter White of the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People and
later the New York World goaded them into
action. It is yet too soon to predict that there
is courage enough and decency enough in South
Carolina to bring the lynchers to justice.
Not to be behind hand in crime, Texas re-
ports a triple lynching for reasons unknown!
Two of the victims-a man and his wife-were
burned to death in their cabin. This is in the
country of the Fundamentalists who pride
themselves on their religious zeal.
In view of these facts and others like them.
it is high time to revive agitation for a federal
anti-lynching law. It would, of course, nave
been better if the states had taken care of this
matter. A federal law will not be self-enforc-
ing. Nevertheless, if American citizenship means
anything it means the right to life as against
the mob. The United States is bound to guar-
antee that to its Negro citizens. Undoubtedly
the previous agitation for the Dyer afti-lynch-
ing bill in Congress was partly responsible for
the improvement i
This time sup-
South.
port should be give to the bill in dead carnest.
There is no room for section feeling in this
matter. nor can the North, in view of its own
race riots, assume a holier-than-thou attitude.
All of us as decent citizens must get together
to remove from the United States a disgrace
which is not shared by the most backward peo-
ples on the earth.
