Wytheville Is Quiet! Quiet! Is
From (Norfolk, Va.,) Virginian-Pilot
.
Wytheville, Aug.—(A. P.)—Wythe-
ville, scene of the lynching of Ray-
mond Bird, a 31 year-old Negro,, who
was killed in a cell of the Wythe county
jail at an early hour Sunday morning,
is quiet, and no excitement has been ob-
served in the town.
Why, indeed, should Wytheville be ex-
cited?
If the cashier of the leading bank had
absconded with the burghers' savings, if a
leading citizen had been apprehended in
flagrant dereliction with the town Jezebel,
if the Mayor and Episcopal rector had
stage a Main street fist fight, if the Metho-
dist pastor. had boldly in his pulpit defended
the teaching of organic evolution-if any of
these truly disturbing offenses against de-
cency had been committed in Wytheville
on the morning of an August Sabbath, the
citizenship, we take it, would have been
stirred to their righteous depths. There
I would have been no end of talk, and the
constabulary would not have been idle.
But none of these dreadful things hap
pened last Sunday.
All that happened in Wytheville on the
Lord's day was this:
A band of fifty or more gentlemen, some
dressed in women's clothes, some in other
disguises and all of them masked, forced an
entrance into the county jail where lay a
prisoner of the law awaiting trial on the
charge of criminal assault.
.
Entering the cell of the prisoner who was
awaiting the fair trial prescribed for him
by the Constitution, the noble knights began
judicial operations by shooting him several
tinies in the head and body.
}
Having done this, they fell to beating the
corpse about the head until, when they
finished it was unrecognizable.
Thereupon, tying the corpse by the neck
to the rear axle of a motor car, they
dragged the body on the ground nine miles
to the vicinity of Rural Retreat, where they
hung it on the limb of a tree.
Having thus vindicated the law and set
the State an example of justice as it is pre-
scribed by Anglo-Saxon chivalry, they fired
a parting volley into the swinging body and
stepped on the gas.
A
How is it possible for anybody to get ex-
cited over a prank like this? Is it any
wonder that "Wytheville is quiet"?
;
