LYNCHING-A SOCIAL DISEASE- A SOCIAL DISEASE
By DAVID W. THOMAS, Professor of History, University of Arkansas DAVID W. THOMAS, Professor of History, University of Arkansas
Editor's Note.-Mr. Thomas is white and writes the following article
in the Little Rock, Ark., Gazette, a white paper.Note.-Mr.
The press of Arkansas
lished a letter purporting
a committee of the mob which lynched
the negro at Stuttgart. of course, they
seek to justify their netion. In view of
this and of other lynchings in this and
other states, the following facts ought to
be of interest to the Stuttgart commit-
recently pub-
to come from
tee and to the people of the state.
The records of lynching for 1914, coin-
piled by three different agencies, give
the total number for the year as 52. 5f
and 74, the authority for these figures.
being Tuskegee Institute, the Chicago.
Tribune and The Crisis respectively,
The conflicting reports cannot be har-
monized, but to avoid any possibility of
exaggeration we may employ the most
conservative of these for analysis.
It reveals these facts: Number lynch-
ed-negro male, 46, female 3: white male
3: total 52.
Crimes charged against victims: Mur-
der 13, robbery and murder 6. robbery
and attempted murder 1, suspected of
murder 1, rape 6, attempted rape 1, kill-
Ing an officer 5, wounding officer 1, mur-
derous assault 3, alleged murderous as-
sault 1, biting of a man's chin 1. ne-
ensed of wounding a person 1. kllling
person in quarrel 4, heating child to
death 1, trying to force way into wom-
an's room 1. stealing shoes 1. stealing
mules 1. setting fire to barn 2, assist-
ing a man to`escape who had wounded
another 1, heing found under a house 1.
The three women were lynched for the
following reasons:
One, 17 years old,
for killing a man who it was reported,
had raped her; the second was accused
of beating a child to death; the third was
accused of helping her husband set fire
to a barn. In the last case, both hus-
band and wife were lynched in the
presence of their 4-year-old child,
It should be especially noted that of
the 52 persons lynched, only 7, 2 white
and 5 negroes, or 13 per cent, were charg-
ed with the crime against womanhood.
This shows clearly how far and how
quickly the habit has spread beyond the
bounds set by those who first resorted
to lynching as a remedy.
According to states. the lynchings
were distributed as follows: Alahamia.
2. Arkansas 1. Florida 4. (eorgin 2,
Louisiana 12, Mississippi 12, Missouri 1,
New Mexico 1, North Dakota 1, North
Carolina 1, Oklahoma 3, Oregon 1, South
Carolina 4, Tennessee 1 and Texas 6.
The same agency which reported 52
lynchings for 1914, makes the following
report for 1915: Number lynched-ne-
gro male 5), female 3: white male 14.
female 0: total 68. This is an increase
of 16, or 30 per cent, over the total num-
ber for 1914. .
According to states, the lynchings for
1915 were distributed as follows: Ala-
bama 9, Arkansas 5. Florida 5, Georgia
18, Illinois 1. Kentucky 5, Louislana 2.
Mississippi 9. Missouri 2, Ohio 1, Okla-
homa 3. South Carolina 1, Tennessee 2
and Teaxs 5.
It is worthy of note that in at least
four cases it later was discovered that
the victims of the mob were innocent of
the crime of which they were accused.
The Stuttgart committee signed them-
selves "Yours for the proper and un-
failing enforcement of the law." On
the contrary I would say to this com-
mittee, if the law were enforced you
would now be on the way to the gal-
lows.
You are undermining all respect for
the law. One of the dearest rights to
every American is the right of trial in
open court. yet you have robbed the
victim of this right. In doing this you
have paved the way to violation of
other rights. Where will it end? The
above figures show that lynching is
now used for trivial crimes, sometimes,
no doubt, for personal spite or ven-
geance. Lynching is a serious social
disease and you are helping to spread
it. Last week six negroes were lynched.
one in Texas and five in Florida. The
legislature of Georgia, where lynchings
are most common, has refused the mod-
est disapproval of allowing the governor
to remove sheriffs in counties where
lynchings occur.
You say that the victim was charged
with a heinous crime. True, and if
guilty, he deseryed the extreme penalty
of the law. You say that he confessed
to you. Granted. Then people who be-
lieve in the death penalty must admit
that he deserved to die.
But in civilized countries only one
authority is allowed to kill, the state.
You have lynched both the victim and
the law.
Why have you done this? Perhaps
you will say, because of the law's de-
lay. If left to the courts, there not only
would have been delay; he might even
have failed of conviction.
You also claim to have hanged him
"in as humane a manner as possible."
His death, you claim, was much more
"humane" than that of Sir Roger Case-
ment, recently executed in England for
treason.
But let us compare your action with
that of the English people.
a fearful crime, yet they left it to the
Treason is,
seen, there
There was
courts. So far as I have
no talk of lynching.
little delay in the courts and there was
punishment.
11:0
the
Our courts sometimes are slow and
there are exasperating_delays, but will
lynching
Recusod improve
courts? Why not begin on judges, law-
yers and juries? Can we not make our
courts as good as those of the English
| people whose descendants we are and
| whose courts we borrowed? · Yet they
Jean never equm) the English courts un-
til they are backed by an equal respect
for the law on the part of the people,
As there are në "obvious reasons" for
withholding my naine, I sign
i
"Yours for the proper and unfail-
ing enforcement of the law," including
the suppression vi lynching.
DAVID W. THOMAS,
Professor of History.
Fayetteville. ¿Ark.W.
