BLEASE IS SCRIED BY
ASSOCIATED ONVERNORS
in Uproar Over
, Va. — The Governor Conference
who opposed the
themselves
2.6
The four governors
resolution declared
strongly endorsing its purport, but
voted "No" because they thought they
had no right to reprimand a collea-
gue.
Governor Bleise himself, target of
the attack, hotly defended his convic-
tion, snapped his fingers in the face
of his colleagues, told them to "go to
it," declared he cared not 8
whit
what the conferençe said, thought, did
or did not do, and announced that all
the resolutions they might ever adopt
wcuid neither keep him from the Gov-
ernor's chair nor from a seat in the
United States Senate in 1915 or ear-
lier. Said he
"On the 4th of March, 1915, if God
spares me, I will be sworn in aa
member of the United States Senate;
¡I snap my fingers at your resolutions,
for all the resolutics and all the mo
tions you may act upon will not avail
ot keep me out,
“Long after many of you gentlemen
here today are resting in the retired
shades of private life, I will be reaping
the rewards of public service. Long after
you good Governors are no longer Govern.
ora, the white women of South Carolina
will pray for me with their arms around
their girls and will arise from their knees
to kiss their husbands and beg them to
go to the ballot box and vote for Blease
to protect them from their daily terror.”
A faint round of applause ripplød over
the conference hall succeeded by a atorm
of hisses.
"What care I for your hisses?" ba
shouted, shaking his clenched fist at the
chairman and turning to face his colleagues
"Hime if you must! Only snakes and geène
hi”
Again his voice was drowned in the
storm. When the vigorous rapping of the
chairman had brought order he continued:
All Can Go To
"When I said I never would order out
the militia to protect the black brute who
laid his desecrating hand upon a white
woman, I spoke the truth.
say it now
again. That is my position, gentleme
and if you don't agree with me, in the
words of the great Virginian, go to it!'
"I was quoted yesterday as saying "To
hell with the Constitution.' I may now to
all the Governors of all the States au
all the people of the United Stater what
I said then."
The conference hall was thrown into an
uproar.
Governor Blease was taken to taak by
dozen Governors. Governor Carey of W
oming denounced him for "Claming a
monopoly for South Carolins of the re-
spect of the white man for women." Gor-
ernor Hadley of Missouri declared that
the floor of the conference hall was not a
"clearing house for local and personal con-
troversies." Governor Goldsborough of
Maryland declared that he stood solidly
by the resolution because it was a matter
of right. Governor Dix of New York
thought it would be “mast unwise” not to
adopt the resolution. Governor O'Neal of
Alabama, in a ringing speech, which was
drowned time after time by applause,
serted his belief that the entire confer
ence had been belittled by the South
Carolinian's remarks, and that it was the
sworn duty of every executive to uphold
the law and the enforcement of law.
Resolution as Passed
The Governors passed this resolution:
"Resolved, That it is the sentiment of
the Governors' Conference in session at
Richmond, Va., today, that the whole
power of the several States should be
used whenever necessary to protect per
sons accused of crime of every kind
against the violence of moba and to pro-
vide for speedy, orderly and impartial
trials by courts of competent jurisdiction
to the end that the law for the protection
of life and property be duly enforced and
respected by the people."
The fifth annual Governors' conference
adjourned this afternoon to meet infor
mally tomorrow with President Taft at
Washington and discuss rural credits, and
to meet formally next year at Colorado
Springs, at a date as yet undetermined.
In its dying hours it adopted a resolution
which, in the opinion of many delegates,
sounds the knell of the time-honored mort-
gage on the farm and presages the ad-
vent of a new financial era for the far-
mers of the country. Should the intent
of this preliminary resolution attain frui-
tion the Governors believe it will result in
the establishment of a new system of
State banks throughout the United States,
governed by a uniform State law. These
banks, under the resolution. wonld be
financed by private capital and would op-
crate under legislation sufficiently elastic
to enable them to issue bonds for short
or long terms upon American farms in
lieu of mortgages. The bonds in turn, in
the opinion of the Governors, would be
listed under State supervision on the
stock exchanges of the world.
Myron T. Herrick, Ambassador to
France, addressed the conference on this
topic as President Taft's representative
and declared that the thrifty peop of
France and other European countries
were ready to invest their savings in these
securities.
Fairbanks Defends Judiciary
Chicago, Dec. 6.-Critics of the judi-
ciary of the United States were placed in
the same category with Governor Blesse
of South Carolina today by Charles W..]
Fairbanks, former Vice President, who
addressed a meeting of the Hamilton Club
"I understand." said Mr. Fairbanks,
"that Governor Blease is reported to have
said: 'To
with the Constitution.
The persons who undermine the faith of
the people in the judiciary directly
attacking the Constitution of the United
States, and may spread the
implied in the reported remar of Gor
ernor Blease,, If I remember correctly,
South Carolinár on two previous occasions
uttered a sentiment of that kind. On the
last occasion it took four years of bloody
war and the lives of many thousands be
fore that political horory was stamped out,
an I had hoped, forever."
