Lynchings in Other States.
Two very sensational lynching cases
have recently occurred- the one
at
Belleville, in Illinois, and the other
near Wilmington, in Delaware, both
of which are now considered northern
states. In both hundreds, if not
thousands, of boys participated in the
mob proceedings. In both the victim
was burned to ashes. In both states
efforts are being made to punish the
ringleaders of the lynching bees. Says
the Charleston News and Courler:
" We have no reproaches for the people
of Illinois, however. They will find that
the lynching habit will grow upon them,
as it has grown upon the people of the
Commonwealths which have permitted
the mob to take the place of the law.
The lynching of men in the south for
one offence has been followed by the
lynching of men for other offences, and
so it will be in Illinois if the public sentiment
of that state is not aroused to
the dangerous tendency of the
at Belleville." incident
This is all very true, and it is also
true that the ringleaders at Belleville
will not be apprehendea unless good
detective work is brought into play.
Already it is stated that" it is impos
sib.e to get at the facts." This is, of
course, true, if the facts are sought in
a superficial manner. When the facts
are really desired and are sought in
earnest and in a business- like manner,
they will be obtained.
The trouble in Delaware was created
by the refusal of the trial court
to inconvenience itself by hearing the
cas: at once. The weather is becoming
warm, and the trial judge preferred
a vacation to a murder trial.
This precipitated in Delaware, as it
would elsewhere, mob action. The
judge put the case over until October,
although the crime was a most brutal
one, and he knew the community was
deeply stirred by it. The horrible af
fair lies at his door, or rather at the
door of the law that permits a judge
to serve himself rather than the people
.
The lesson of the Delaware case
should be heeded in this state. The
Bilbro bill, which would keep all the
trial courts open all the time, is sad
ly needed, and the legislature should
not adjourn in September until it has
given us this last and permanent and
complete remedy against mob rule. If
the law is to be supreme in all cases
and at all times, then we must have
hand a court ready to act, and this.
is at what the Bilbro bill will supply.
