the slightest preparazion to resist the
mob; the absence of all of the deputies
except Gibson from the jail during the
mob's proceedings, occupy a period of
some hours in the early evenings; the ac
tion of Shipp in not resisting the mob,
and not making any reasonable attempt
to save Johnson or to identify an of
the members of the mob, justify an inference
of a disposition on his part to
render it easy for the mob to lynch
Johnson and to acquiesce in the lynch
ing."
Sheriff Made No Effort.
The chief justice declared that after
Johnson was taken from the jail the sher
iff had made no effort to go after the
lynchers or to reach the police or militia,
or others." When," he said," Shipp
reached the jail he could have gone about
three blocks to the police station and
got the police. No attempt was nade
to summon a posse. He sent no one after
deputies. He made no effort to send
any one for help. Although Shipp was
in the midst or near the members of
the mob for about an hour he did not
seek to obtain information so th
could identify any of them and. he testi
fles that he does not know any member
of the mob."
Reaching his conclusion with reference
to Shipp the chief justice said it wa
" that Shipp not only made the work of
the mob easy, but in effect, aided and
abetted it."
The court found Jailer Gibson to be
involved in the same condemnation though
under less responsibility. Consequently
attachments were ordered to be issued for
both the sheriff and his deputy, the jailor,
as they were for Williams, Nolan, Pad
gett and May, the last four being charged
with being members of the lynching
party. Against these, to use the language
of the court," the rule was made absolute
." Deputy Galloway and the two men,
Justice and Ward, were discharged. The
court said that there was direct testimony
of the participation of Williams
and Nolan in the lynching while it was
stated that Padgett and May had themselves
made statements which incriminated
them.
Review of Case.
Reviewing the proceedings in the
case of Johnston, the negro who was
lynched, the chief justice pointed out
that even before the case was brought
to the supreme court, there had been
many threats of lynchag because of the
serious character of the negro's of
ferse. Continuing, he said of the proceeding
on the night of the lynching:
" The assertion that violence was not
expected and that there was no occasion
for providing more than the
usual guard of one man for the jail
in Chattanooga are quite anreasonable
and inconsistent with statements made
by Sheriff Shipp and his deputies that
they were looking for a mob on the
next day."
The chief justice pointed out that
the ail had been left entirely
un
guarded and in charge of Deputy
son when every precaution to guard
the prisoner should have been taken.
History of the Case.
Chattanooga, May 21.- Abeut 7:30 or
8 o'clock on the nigat of January 19,
Miss Nevatia Taylor, the daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. William Taylor, who resides
near Oakhill cemetery in St. Elmo,
was criminally assaulted by a negro.
The young woman was returning to her
home from the city where she was om
ployed. later
few weeks later and tried in thecrim
gro. was arrested on strong circumstantial
evidence. He was taken o
Nashville by Sheriff Shipp for safe
keeping, and two days later Miss Taylor
went to that city, where she identified
him as her assacant.
Johnston was brought back here a
few weeks later and triad in the criminal
court. He was defended by three
of Chattanooga's best lawyers, and convicted
and sentenced to be hanged.
Judge 8. D. McReynolds sentenced him
1.ang on March 17.
to After Johnston's trial, two local col-
Contrary to Testimony.
" It seems to us that to say that the
sheriff and his deputies did not anticipate
that the mob would attempt to
lynch Johnson on the night of the 19th
is to charge them with gross neglect of
duty, and with an ignorance of conditions
in a matter which vitally concerned
them all as officers and is directly contrary
to their own testimony. It is absurd
to contend that officers of the low,
who have been through the experiences
these defendants had passed through two
months prior to the actual lynching, did
not know that a lynching probably would
he attempted on the 19th.
" Under the facts shown when the sher
iff and his deputies assert that they expected
a mod on the 20th they practically
concede the knowledge of the information
and they were informed and had
every reason to believe an attempt would
be made on the evening of the 19th or
early in the morning of the 20th
" In view of this Shipp's failure to. make
SHERIFF SHIPP
TO BE PUNISHED
FOR LYNCHING
( CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1)
days after the lynching in which Shipp
said that he did not attempt to hurt
any of the mob," and in which he charged
the supreme court with the responsibility
for the lynching because of its interference
in the case. Commenting on this utterance
, the chief justice said:
" He evidently resented the necessary
order of this court as an alien intra
sion and declared that the court was responsible
for the lynching. According to
him" the people of Hamilton county were
willing to let the law take its course
until it became known that the case
would probably not be disposed of for
four or five years by the supreme court
of the United States."
" But,' he added."' the people would not
submit to this and I do not wonder at
it.' In other words his view was that
because this court in the discharge of
its duty, entered the order which it did,
that therefore the people of Hamilton
county would not submit to its mandate,
and hence the court became responsible
for the mob. He took the view expressed
by several members of the mob on the
afternoon of the 19th and before the
lynching when they said, referring to the
supreme court that they had no business
interfering with our business at all.'
His reference to the people' was significant
for he was a candidate for re
election and had been told that his sav
ing the prisoner from the first attempt
to mob him would cost him his place
and he had answered that he wished
mob had got him before he did. the
