ILLINOIS RACE RIOTS,
SCENES OF BLOODY VIOLENCE
AT DANVILLE.
Negro Is Lynched and Burned- County
Jail and City Prison Are Almost
Demolished- Troops Are Ordered to
the City.
After the terrible scenes of Saturday
night, when for six hours Danville, Ill.,
was at the merey of a howling, blood
thirsty mob of frenzied and half- drunken
men, the city is quiet.
It is the quiet, however, that is
brought about by the glitter of rifles in
the hands of soldiers who are licensed to
kill. On the surface all is peaceful, but
underneath the storm of rage and hatred
is boiling and threatens to break forth
anew when the troops shall have depart
ed.
Tossed here and there on the public
square, as the capricious winds will it,
are the fragments of clothing, bits of
bloody hay and splintered wood, grew
some mementoes of Saturday night's
sickening tragedy, when the negro May
field was dragged to death and his corpse
hacked to bits and burned.
City Is in Dread.
Close by is the county jail, not a whole
pane of glass left in the windows, and
the doors and walls bearing the marks
of the assault by the mob. Three blocks
away is the city prison, demolished by
the mob. In the hospitals are a dozen
or more men suffering ganshot wounds,
and many more slunk away after the
sheriff made his determined stand, bear-
ing with them testimony in the way of
buckshot, that he was a man of his
word.
Public feeling against the negroes had
been wrought to a high pitch by a terri
ble assault upon a white woman by
James Wilson, a negro in the jail, and
there had been much talk of lynching,
but it had not crystallized until Saturday
evening.
Shot by Negro.
About 8:30 p. m. a negro named Met-
calf became involved in an argument
with Henry Gatterman, a young butcher,
in front of an East Main street saloon,
which ended in the negro shooting Gat-
terman dead.
The negro was caught and with much
difficulty the police took him to the city
prison, followed by a crowd which rapidly
grew into a mob that yelled itself
hoarse in demanding that the murderer
be lynched.
The police, assisted by Sheriff H. H.
Whitlock, gathered in the city building
trying to keep the mob out, but were
finally forced to admit a portion of them.
The colored murderer had previously
been locked in a vault in which the police
records are kep: and the officers hoped
that the mob would not find him.
Dragged from Jail.
The leaders were told that Metcalf
had been taken out of the rear door and
carried into the country in a buggy, but
they refused to believe the assertion.
Some went for railroad irons and others
for sledge hammers, and a few minutes
later the lock had been knocked off the
vault door and the negro was dragged
forth amid the exultant shouts of his
captors. The victim made a fierce struggle
, but the blows that were rained upon
him soon brought him to the floor of the
police station, and a volver in the hands
of one of the members of the mob put
a sudden end to his sufferings.
Body Is Ricated,
The mob then dragged the dying man
from the building, and placing a rope
about his neck dragged him one square
south to Main street and then five
squares east to the saloon where he killed
Gatterman, where his body was struck
up to a telegraph pole and riddled with
bullets.
Cries of" Burn him!"" Burn him!"
were then heard, and the mob leaders
soon had the lifeless body of the negro
cut down and were dragging him souh
on the Wabash Railroad tracks.
At South street the mob leaders decided
to take the body to the jail, where
James Wilson, another negro captured
at Marshfield, Ind., charged with trying
to assault Mrs. Mary Burgess, a white
woman, the previous day, is imprisoned.
" On to the Jail."
As soon as the word was given the
mob yelled," To the jail,"" Mob the
other etc. and made a wild
charge for that building, where quite a
crowd had already congregated in anticipation
of another lynching.
Arrived at the jail, the body of the
negro was placed in the center of the
converging streets, where dozens of freu
zied men and boys kicked and jumped
it. body was totally naked,
upon The
and blood was oozing from dozens of
sallet holes.
Some one then threw an armful of hay
upon the body and touched a match to it.
after which the mob backed away a short
distance and watched the awful spectacle
.
Demand More Blood.
Growing tired of this grewsome sight,
the mob turned its attention to the county
jail and demands were made upon
Sheriff Whitlock to surrender Wilson.
A dozen or more deputies and police
men had hurriedly been gathered together
and placed in the jail, heavily armed.
Sheriff Whitlock remonstrated with the
mob, but without effect. Finally a peep
hole was opened and the barrel of a
Winchester gun was thrust through it
and another demand from the sheriff, this
time from a window in the second story,
for the mob to disperse, was made.
Shot Angers Mob.
No attention being given to it, a shot
was fired over the heads of the mob. The
thot seemed only to anger the mob, and
a charge was made with the battering
ram upon the door. The gun was again
fired, this time into the dense crowd
wielding the railroad iron, and several
men were seen to drop to the ground.
Several more shots were fired from
the jail door and windows by the officers
Inside, and the mob began to scatter,
leaving four or five on the ground bleed
ing from bullet wounds. Others limped
away, showing that many of the buckshot
and bullets had taken effect.
From Far and Near.
The contract for the Oklahoma build
ing at the St. Louis world's fair has been
let for$ 15,500.co
The Oregon delegation is to ask Congress
for$ 700,000 for the Lewis and
Clark exposition.
Charlemagne Tower, United States
ambassador to Germany, and George V.
L. Meyer, United States ambassador to
Italy, are in this country on a vacation
from their posts.
A dispatch from Cracow, eapital of
Galicia, Austria, says thirty- six children
have died after eating poisoned candies.
Three men have been arrested as the
perpetrators of the crime.
Charles Geister of West Hamilton,
Ohio, shot and killed his brother, John
Geisler, a carpenter, at the former's sa
loon. The shooting occurred in the pres
ence of the victim's wife and was the
result of a prolonged quarrel, which
the brothers came to blows. in
