ster, Third lowa. J. H. Wright
firmed as postmaster at Marinette
WEDNESDAY, April 28.- On
the Missouri Mr. McMillan, bills were passed
the construction of bridges
.
Across the Mississippi River
Keithsburg, Ill .; across the
River from Winona, Minn., to
Lynch Him at an shore in Wisconsin; across the
Morning. River in Montana; across the
River at Pierre, Dak .: across the
pi River from Red Wing, Minn
April 27.- George posite shore in Wisconsin.
murderer, was THURSDAY, April 29.- When
office bill was
at an early tor Beck took the floor in opposition
spring wagon steamship subsidy clause. Senators
of the lynching and Hale also took part in the
halted in front before the latter gentleman had
Senate went into session
few men heavily
FRIDAY, April 30.- The president's
their hands of the bill" to prevent the
knocked at soldiers' graves" was sustained
sheriff was asleep, of, yeas 6, nays 48. The president
the bill to make
by the open. He says the government has
men," the necessary
to Graham's praisement of merchandise and
to equivocate, tion of duties which by such
thrust between necessary in order to secure to
resistance was the advantage of immediate
them where tion. In the absence of such
went to the proposed legislation would
and inoperative."
door. Graham
House.
commanded
MONDAY, April 26.- The river
first infuriated, bill was before the House and
, but he was bate took place, several amendments
of a rifle thrust offered, but no action was
himself, and bill. The committee on public
around his ported a bill to forfeit the lands
gan granted to aid in the construction
wept bitterly. railroad from Marquette to
informed him Under the call of states, the
demanded a true etc., were introduced and
killing of Sarah the admission of the whole of
his composure, the union of states; also, to
his old audacity partment of labor and to create
of
out he would
tween labor and capital; sympathizing
talk." He was Mr. Gladstone in his efforts to
at the end of Parliament for Ireland. Resolutions
the wagon, and introduced protesting against
moved in a tion to place wool on the free
The crowd of claring that the present agitation
by this time in subject is making the wool
profitable.
fifty, at once
TUESDAY, April 27.-Mr. Bennett
were halted and reported adversely a bill to
and only a few of from acquiring titles to or
kept on walk-| within the United States
,.
fences and trees. WEDNESDAY, April 28.-Mr.
of the city the from the committee on agriculture
small scrub oak ed a bill defining butter and
thrown out, who upon and regulating the manufacture
exportation and importation
followers at a dis- garine. Committee of the whole
for the hang- passed authorizing the improvement
. Graham was water power of the Mississippi
further to say tle Falls, Minn.
of his wife. THURSDAY, April 29 .-- Conference
was is not tees were ordered on Senate
charmed and the to House bills authorizing the
surrounded of bridges over various rivers
( Ia.) gave notice he would
claimed that he Campbell- Weaver election case
statement that day. Mr.
Lanham( Tex.) from
Cora Lee were mittee on coinage, weights and
murder. A cioth reported a bill for the retirement
and his hands coinage of trade dollars.
, as the rope then went into committee of
on river harbor
of the stunted priation bill, the pending amendment
arms in a twink
one providing that the appropriation
the wife- mur- the Missouri River shall be
was literally the direction of the secretary
5 o'clock A. M. out the intervention of the
hanging where but it was agreed thatendment
This is the first lowed on it in the House. The
that has oc- making an appropriation of
for twenty for the improvement of the
that one wing sippi having been reached, the
, where Cora rose and the House adjourned.
the intention of FRIDAY, April 30.- A resolution
this is not veri adopted setting apart May 13
sideration of business presented
mittee on agriculture. Mr. Hatch
the bill creating the department
.
wrote a full ure, and the House proceeded to
of his wife, ad- eration in committee of the whole
and prosecuting morning hour expired pending a
pages of fools- sy as to the limitation to be
debate.
starts out by say
made in order to SATURDAY, May 1.- Considerable
to curtail the in- sion was caused by a report from
expense to the coun
mittee on civil- service reform
no excuse the appointment of substitutes
then exonerates ary department. The Oklahoma
from all complic- which provides for the opening
crime. He says ment of 12,000,000 acres
never been ken up and nearly discussed, but
