MURDERS AND LYNCHING IN KANSAS.- From the
St. Louis Democrat of the 5th and 6th, we obtain the
particulars of the recent murders and lynching at
Leavenworth City, Kansas. It appears that an or.
ganized band of robbers and murderers has for some
time existed in Leavenworth and the surrounding
country, and the discovery of this fact, it is sup
posed, accounts for many recent murders and sudden
disappearances. On the 31st ult., a man named
Stephens arrived in Leavenworth from Kansas City,
and drew a small sum of money from the bank. A
man named Quarles got him intoxicated, and enticed
him to a spot outside the city, where they met several
members of this band, who fell upon Stephens,
murdered him and threw his body into the river.
Quarles ran back to the city and gave the alarm, as if
he were not a party to the affair, but the citizens immediately
arrested him and two others of the gang.
The Democrat's account, derived from the officers of
a steamboat, says:
One of them, quite a youth, named Payne, made a
full confession of the deed, and also of the numerous
achievements of the gang. The crowd kept Quarles
and Payne, for the purpose of finding evidence sufficient
to convict them of the crime. After consider
able deliberation and the delivery of a speech by
Judge Lecompte, who endeavored to quiet the excité
ment, the crowd, fearing interference from the troops
in the fort, took Quarles to a tree below town, and
hung him soon after. Payne shared the same fate.
On Sunday, as we passed down, the ringleader, whose
name is Wood, and one Knight, or Knighton, were
in the hands of the enraged people, and were to be
hung on Sunday afternoon.
Wood was making his will, and his comrade,
Knight, was writing a confession. Wood is supposed
to be very well off, probably from success in his diabolical
undertakings. We did not learn the name of
.
those who were implicated as confederates by the
youth who confessed.
It is worthy of remark, however, that some twelve
or thirteen citizens could not be found when inquired
after on Saturday.
The entire community appeared to be unanimous
in approving the steps that had been taken in regard
to the hanging.
The Democrat of the 6th has the following later intelligence
:
The steamer Alonzo Child, which arrived here
some hours later than the Hesperian, passed Leaven.
worth City on Monday evening. The trial of Woods
, and Knighton, owing to the clamor and confusion,
had not yet ended. The people seemed very much
afraid the prisoner would be acquitted, and expressed
themselves determined at all hazards to execute
lynch law upon the offenders. Gov. Walker had
. reached the city, and was endeavoring to pacify the
populace, but without effect. The officers of the
Alonzo Child think the mob has by time pre-
vailved, and the prisoners have been hung this.
