Place( 8th
Mark's direction
St. in almost every.
, have scattered
2d avenues. They are
have out to Santa Fe as teamsters;
gone
style and according to
descending the river in skiffs and
,
dwellings judges brown in, the stone are city the front-. most The are few others have are gone returning out into home the on surrounding foot; and
to live. The steamers Tribulary
try
railings- the painted
halls are lighted in front Little Missouri have each about 150 on
cornices and other rich de- and the Tamerlane brought down squads 70.
have left the fort in promiscuous
/
the exquisite beauty of
it is more than probable that a great many
a portion of the pe never return to the place of their former
heuses.- N. Y. Journal dence. A few wagons were still preparing
leave for the plains, but the number has
CIRCUIT COURT. greatly reduced of late, and it is thought that
yesterday. The appearance a few more will be started out this fall.
informed, is larger, by late intelligence had been received from
cases, than at any term Kearney St. Louis Era.
The only important cases
GLORIOUS EXAMPLES.
the U. States rs. Francis
Amid the storm and the rain on Tuesday
Monday in November;
administrator of Gen. Van there appeared at the polls, in East- Bethlehem
issue from the Orphan's Township, an aged citizen, THOMAS FARQUHAR
hear that the late illness of who cast bis ballot for the Whigs. This
election, was ninety
prevent his attendance on the day of the over
of the Court, which af- years of age !! Long, long, may the aged
generally, devoted to chan- yet live, and long may his bright and glorious
honor, Judge C., will, ample be cherished and treasured in the
be able to attend during of the rising generation.
WILLIAM GARDNER, of Cross Creek
term.- Washington News.
ship, an aged Whig, walked through the
FROM OREGON. on Tuesday last, a distance of six miles, to
Expositor announces the the Whig Ticket- after doing which he
, from Oregon city, who home on foot through the mud and pelting
represents the peo hurry out his Whig neighbors to the polls.
prosperous He and generally well Gardner is upwards of 60 years of age. May
