alternately at Toronto and Quebec, four years termination of our noble continent, but
din each place, were debated in Assembly. An not on a continent at all, is known by the
address was voted to the Governor General by propriate name of the Hermits. If solitude
a majority of five, in favor of removal to To and desolution, and want, and a contemplation
of some of the sublimest features of this earth
ronto and Quebec. At a fire on Friday, the mob can render a spot fit for a hermitage, those
manifested violence towards the police -- no se islands are very judiciously named. The
that is farthest south contains the cape itself
rious injury was done. which is marked by the ragged pyramid of
We have mentioned that Mr. Ellicott had rock already mentioned; placed there by nature
sold his' Gold farm in Montgomery county, Md., a never tring sentinel of the war of the
ments."
We have since ascertained that the Company
with whom he contracted have not as yet com The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal
plied. Mr. E. has given them to the 9th of For the National Intelligencer.
June next, to comply. A large load of the ore In 1844-5 the Legislature
of Maryland pass
was, we learn, taken from the farm, to be sent ed a law to provide the ways and means
to Philadelphia for examination, the company finish the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal to Cumberland
, and, among other provisions of
it
being satisfied with the partial given liens
one
not
directed existing
law that all prior or pre
work should
-
Maryland upon that
,
by Prof. Emmons, of Albany. held by
The Quincy Bank at Boston was robbed on waived and postponed, upon certain conditions
strictly
the 22d of$ 5000. The cashier went into the
of that
tom bank, and early took in the from morning the vault, as is that his amount usual cus of in to open Europe negotiations, to raise the, hoth amount in of this money country deemed
sufficient by the issue of bonds agreeably
referred to.
,
the
,
before
it in his drawers for
and arranged Maryland
money, the law of
purpose of facilitating business at the opening after long, earnest, and able efforts on
He then locked the bank and proceeded to part of those agents, they utterly failed;
breakfast. When he returned he found that when, in June, 1846, at the general meeting
of
the door had been broken open and the money at the Exchange, in the city of Baltimore
stolen
whilst many
.
and, after the adjournment, and
The trial of the Rev. Mr. Burroughs for man- persons representing large interests in
the
slaughter, in causing the death of James Byard body and watched the expiring spirit of
Bishop at Snow Hill, Md., in February last, by noble enterprise a voice from the Old Domin-
,,
shooting him with a pistol, closed on Saturday on was heard suggesting, as a last effort
with a verdict of acquittal, the act having prov- guaranty on the part of Virginia of portions
canal bonds to be to
ed one of self- defence, or committed under rea- law of Maryland before referred to: Time,
sonable apprehension of great bodily harm.- great touch- stone of experience and vindicator
verdict seems, it is said, to be fully sustained of human actions, has rolled over, and soon
The meeting of the waters of the Ohio and the Poto
