, has the honor of being the birth- place
the home of Phil Waters, one of the most invet cibly deprived
practical jokers the world has ever produced; day to the
that Phil was a rough- and- tumble sort of a fel shared a
on the
who delighted in such low, practical jokes, as resolved
ringing of door- bells- the calling up of the old
on a cold winter's night to see a sick female, preacher,
after leading him for two or three miles cordingly
It was
the snow in the woods, to declare that and although
must be mistaken. Not such a joker was shone out
Waters, but a nice, quiet, unobtrusive, mod that pearly
young n, that would have passed muster a tomb; for
a host of ministerial candidates. Phil had and the
chemistry, and it was his special delight to It was a
a cause and watch its chemical effect on his de barns and
victim.
far from Phil's paternal mansion was situated ple by the
And yet
B Academy, or, as the villagers called it, three
College." Among the students of which num from shore
Phil was one at the Academy, was a young assemb led
from North Carolina, named Morris Kenny, Mormons
had imbibed with his mother's milk a strong faith would
aversion to a black man. To him a" nigger" was be fresh
object of special aversion.
in their
Shortly after Morris Kenny's arrival at the Col
he had the good fortune or misfortune to become imaginations
face such
intimate with Phil Waters, so much so, that a day included
not pass that the two were not together. To and many
Morris imparted all his feeling of aversion to
blacks, and would talk for hours at a time on the grasped
curse of being born a negro. Coming from the prayer
, Morris's complexion did not rival" love's lilly or imagined
;" his dark, curly hair and small features first to a thrilling
Phil to think his a lesson on his
painting
antipathy.
project was no sooner formed than executed. which has
had read but little, had a boundless creduli- forms, since
and would listen with rapt attention to Phil's had he
His blue
quotations from authors, which no one but him- like a
ever had the pleasure of reading; to be sure he
gave his author's name and the page of the over the
, but the library at B- was not fortunate erally loaded
to contain all the works that Phil had read, shrieks,
er of
especially those he quoted from.
Singular circumstances, is it not?" remarked Suddenly
one evening, when in company with several oth- before the
students, of which number Morris was one." Sin- terror,
the mob!
circumstances, is it not, that Raffingsparfer
No person
in his of North America, that the
of the South have been known to turn fusion that
all hope
black on being removed to a more temperate
out of the
,
."
God bless my soul! who says that?" exclaimed ils, while
pefied and
, springing from his seat.
Raffingsparfer," repeated Phil," the fifty- fourth ready for
of the second volume, under the head of" Strange bering
Yes, indeed, Morris, my boy, did you never hear the muzzles
thrust
before?" cried Charley Johns." Why man,
within lifted
know that I have been most
watching your
turned them
interesting physiognomy attentively for the past
weeks, to see the great change come over the hardened
of thy face, as Byron says, or should have the since
ly the
"
Morris made no reply, but the bait had taken, the and Presently gigantic
had entered his soul.
day, Phil found him looking over the library the people
Raffingsparfer's History of the N." American very little
The cries
," which, unfortunately, he found Phil had der than
to a a
night Phil obtained from the village apoth- length Col.
Turn
some nut- galls, in a solution of which he wash-
us have the
Morris's towel, and then returned it to the wash
ers!"
There are few that don't know that when a
And the
is washed in a solution of nut- galls and dried,
possesses the power to turn the skin black when execute the
Up to
on it; not black at once, but slowly and surely.
retiring for the night, Phil looked in Morris's with the
and found him reading an old catalogue of the earthly pale
in the British Museum, and declared he could ed, and his
Suddenly
find Raffingsparfer's name among the authors.
Never mind," said Phil, my copy will be at and
next week, and then we'll know all about it. to seize him
" Chase
goodness! Morris, how dark you look this even cried Turk
not been fishing in the sun, I hope!"
Fishing! sun! dark! ch? O Lord! Phil, what ple by
The flight
mean? O, no, I'm not," exclaimed the poor
for the river
Southerner rushing to his mirror Very joke
"
poor,
before the start
.
,
very poor indeed, never looked so white
life, and then he spoke the truth, for Phil tance ahead
frightened him, that his complexion would at him as
he came
compared favorbly to a" bit of chalk."
ily fastened
Well," says Phil," I may be mistaken, but see
in his pocket
believing," you know.- Good night, I'll see you
ny emergency
prayers in the morning."
Morris retired for the night, after determining to over the
wind.
early in the morning and take a bath to prove
" Has
that his complexion was improving. Early
morning he performed the operation much to striking
vexation.
own satisfaction, and wiping himself dry on the
" I have
Phil had prepared with nut- gall, he strolled
into the fields to take an airing before the morn- them on
" Be quick
service. After walking about for half an hour,
a tone of
turned his steps towards the College, deeply pon
The skates
in his mind if Raffingsparfer could be correct.
this time the nut- gall had taken effect on his them on;
complexion, and he had gone through all the differ- bring back
stages of negrodom- very light yellow- mush began the
molasses, a dark cherry- a light walnut color- like the
In the
now was in the last stage, a confirmed darkee.
had not got fifty yards towards the College, ther shore
he met the daughters of one of the professors. tion of
one of these ladies he had a kind of softness; what it
it had never existed as yet, save in looks.- mons from
, then, how astonished he was to see them the river.
over the road as he came towards them, and stream,
made one of his captivating bows, to have no the distance
taken of his polite salute, and to hear one of lets rattled
" I will
remark:
declare, sis, if that negro man did not bow to put forth
became
wonder what the impudent fellow means?"
doubt old Priam was astonished to hear that He slacked
to obtain
was on fire and none of the b'hoys ready to put still too
; Cæsar was rather astonished when he saw
advancing to tickle him under the ribs. Mr. mon uttered
that it be
Macbeth has been seen to express considerable sur
On rushed
, and justly so, to see that" dagger in the
lanch
" friend Dobb but the of
.
essence
says
as our
,
astonishment added together, could not equal above the
sum total of Morris, when he heard himself call- form loomed
stature as
negro.
Raffinsparfer was right, Phil was not joking, preacher
a stern, an indubitable truth, he was a nig- arch persecutor
the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the a laugh
, burst on his mind at once, with such over- scoff of
whelming power, that he had to catch hold of a post his gleaming
support himself. The next moment it struck him his own
might be a joke, and that he was not black. With the coming
speed of lightning, he started for the College, tal, by the
And then
the turnpike, through the lane, and into the
he dashed like a four year old Mazeppa, his olutions to
considerably accelerated by some fond moth- of combat
marked
future ragged" hope" shouting after him,
elipses,
Go it, darkey, I'll hold your hat!"
sooner had he entered the hall of the College every possible
the dreadful truth was but too evident for him seemed a
doubt. In a mirror on the wall he saw the reflec- at fault,
of his face, which was by this time a beautiful peatedly
black. The scream he gave would have done quick thrusts
the cold
to Squire" Metamora."
students had assembled for morning prayers, howled on
friend Phil among the rest; the professor had how carried
reading the morning lesson, and had said, crusted ice
us pray," when the scream penetrated in their neath their
Finally
and next moment the door burst open and in
bounded Morris. terminate
, it's true! it's true! I'm a nigger! I'm a nig- make sure
Raffinsparfer's right! I'm a nigger! O, mighty! the following
black as jet, turned in a night! Lord forgive my a direct
and mother for sending me from home! As Lyncher
as coal! as black as coal!" and overcome with right line
horror of his situation, the poor black man faint They
that of the
away.
professor at once, in elegant phraseology, of their
a rat," an inquiry was instituted, our friend weight with
was detected and received a severe reprimand. ing and
Morris's natural color was soon restored, and as the
But the
as it was safe for him to venture South, there
one student less at B Whatever regret he stars all
parting, was overcome by hearing the old por- the morning
remark as he left the hall," There goes Phil Wa- chaunted
winter,
nigger!"- Flag of our Union.
now no more
office seeker" somewhere" down East," in
to apply for the place of Minister Extraordi- A coffin
to that unknown people alluded in Gen. Tay- bills announcing
Message-" the rest of Mankind. to" window,'
