The Mob at Peeria, Illinois.
Some days ago we had an account( by
telegraph) of some disgraceful proceedings
at Peoria, a mob having attempted to hang
two prisoners who were in jail there under
sentence of death for murder. The Peoria
the 27th ult gives the fol
Republican of.
,
,
lowing particulars of the disgraceful affair:
It is generally known that we have two
young men confined in our county jail, un
der sentence of death, for the murder of a
Mr. Hewitt, in October last. The day fix
by the court for their execution was the
20th instant. The time given them to pretion
pre rode the limite signed by the law,
wales for clause show, the Court or Gov.
unless
enor might prolong it. Special applies
tion being made to the Governor, that func
the execution of the sen-
tionary postponed
tence until the day of January
Unfortunately this application was made
only a few days before the time set by the
Court had expired, and the respite was not
known here soon enough to certify the pub
lie at a distance of the change.
On the evening of the 19th, the unusual
from a distance to
concurse of
ken of the anticipated event which had
their homes Dissatisfac.
called them from.
tion at the postponement of the execution
began to be manifested. People who had
left their business and come a long way to
see two men bung, were not to be deprived
of the sight with impunity. One unhappy
in his
walked all night to see somebody hung, and
was a second time to fall short of his lofty
Such
was too much.
sore
aspirations! It
bereavements in a free country were intolerable
. It was determined that, law or no
law, the hanging must come off. Menaces
this effect did not at first create appre
to hension, as it was thought incredible that,
whether to gratify a depraved appetite for
carnage, or an idle curiosity, or upon the
pretence of meeting out justice to the guilty
, men in this land would openly and wan.
tonly defy the law, stain their hands in hu
man blood, and ineur the guilt of the mur.
derer! Hence doubtless it was that no
sufficient organization for the defence was
effected in time by the proper officers.
On the morning of the 20th, the crowds
from the country increased, and directed
their course towards the jail: soon a vast
The
throng was there concentrated pris
..
oners were demanded of the sheriff; but
there was as yet little concert of action,
and no acknowledged leader.
In the meantime, a gallows was erected
on the opposite side of the street fronting
the jail the halters prepared and fastened
to their places every thing arranged, even
to the hangman's noose, that the business
might proceed whenever the prisoners were
There was a rope for each;
brought forth.
but it is said that( by way of luxury per,
George be hanged first and
haps to
) was,
Tom obliged to stand by and look on,
the amiable executioners might the better
upon the agony which
regale themselves
the sight and his own impending doom
extend this de
awaken. not to
would
tail too far, it must suffice to say, that de.
the efforts of few inside and
spite a some
outside who were anxious to arrest
, proceedings
, the door of the jail was burst in,
and the hall, up to the cells of the victims,
filled with the mob. Here the strength of
the cell door brought them to a halt. Beams
of timber, crow- bars, stones and sledges,
did the work, however, and an entrance to
cells was effected. George
both was
caught, praying, and brought into the hall
to await the capture of Tom.
Here a slight obstacle again intervened.
Tom had concluded not to be taken. While
the mob was at work without, he had man
floor of
aged to dig a stone from the his
cell, which he slid into the leg of a pair of
east off breeches, and on the
But when the door was burst in, it
seems he was taken a little by surprise, and
some of the rabble entered. His adroitness,
however, and the use of his slung- shot, ena.
bled him to get rid of them. He then post
ed himself at the door, which being low and
narrow, but one could enter at a time, and
as fast as any one attempted it, he paid the
forfeit Three or four of them were knock
down., and the skull of one of them bro.
ken. Instruments of defence and attack
were procured, but those he managed to
capture, and used them in fortifying his position
. Some one drew a pistol and order
ed him to surrender. He bared his breast
and challenged the fellow to shoot, said
they might kill him where he was or the
Sheriff might take and hang him according
to law, but he would never be dragged out
by a mob and hung like a dog.
This fierce determination to sell his life
dearly, and die in his tracks, had a mellow.
ing and enlightening influence upon the
deuse faculties of his assailants. They
began to moderate in their zeal for justice,
and to think they were carrying matters
too far. The favorable moment was seized
by the friends of order, and a proposition,
affording a loop- hole of escape from the
ignominy of defeat, was made and accept
ed. After some parley, the jail was cleared,
the gallows taken down, and the mob dis.
persed. The performance was over the
mountain had labored, the mouse was born,
and the throes of parturition ceased to be
felt. Thus ended in farce, what threatened
and was designed for tragedy And this
.
result was brought about chiefly by the
skill and of Tom Brown, one of the
prisoners. valor
