tent. Mr. Coleman, however, made a few appro was shot- the other two were taken and hung by the
priate remarks, which had the effect to allay the populace.
new outbreak. The court, by a vote of the people Our informant thinks there can be no doubt of
present, were then discharged, and adjourned. the truth of the above, as a Spaniard employed
The vote of the jury stood nine for conviction, upon a ranch near Marysville came direet, and
and three for acquittal. The conduct of the gen stated positively that such an outbreak had taken
tlemen composing the court, and of Judge Shat place, and that the parties who were executed were
Americans.
tuck, and of Mr. Coleman, was highly creditable
to them; and, considering the very great excite
ment existing, the behavior of the people was or Very Late from the West Indies.
derly. We have received by the arrival of the Empire City,
After the court adjourned, which was at about
our files of Jamaica papers to the 1st instant, inclusive.
midnight, the people were addressed by Mr. Ilut
The cholera has re- appeared in various parts of Ja
ton and others, and then quietly dispersed. At
maica.
two o'clock, this morning, there were no crowds in
the streets, and the city was perfectly quiet. The Kingston .2dvertiser, of the 24th ult., gives the fol.
OTHER CASES OF LYNCH LAW. lowing intelligence relative to the Jamaica Anti- Slavery
The Alta California states that a lynching ope Society, and the immigration of free- colored persons:
ration came off on Sunday, 2d March, at Stockton. A meeting of the central committee of the Jamaica
A man had been caught stealing some clothing, and Auxiliary Anti- Slavery Society, and of several gentlemetr
having given it up, was allowed to go free. Soon interested in the immigration of free colored Americans to
afterwards, on the same day, he was caught in the this island, was held at the Mico Institution, on Wednesday
actual fact of stealing a mule, when he was taken evening last. The meeting was rather numerously at
tended- W. W. Anderson, Esq., in the chair. The Rev.
by the populace, a rope placed around his neck, and
Mr. Oughton, of this city, and Rev. Mr. Landon, of Cana
was dragged across the slough, with a determi
he da, spoke at some length on the question of immigration
