the recent kidnap. lated on the programme for the benefit of the
CONOMY IS WEALTH!
Lancaster county.
The excitement regarding Railroad accidents TIME SAVE YOUR
proposed to be estab- is fast dying out; and we are almost ready for AMERICAN SOAP
EGO.
and Liverpool, will another. Yours,& c. street, above Washington, are
They celebrated AMERICAN
thousand tons. the
" don," the Washington correspondent of the SOAP ring, in bais; Laundry and
built in the strong.
under date of 20th inst in barrels with great
Baltimore SOAP a
Sun writing., 1,,
cost of about two,
LET and SHAVING SOAPS, which
dollars each. As
says:
will be the public wholesale and retail
two etock presented
SOAPS
organized,
fairly" The Metropolitan railroad These are
immediate contract. taken without delay. It promises much public as the best labor saving
The the Alexan.
of Mississippi, has dria he benefit and Orange. railroad, and its connection covered, and every way worthy
papers of that State, in with the Baltimore railroad is also a work of sideration. A fair trial is all
aspirants, and vast importance to this city and to the whole the work of the laundry in cold
Brown, to courteous country." boting, tour saft, dispensing
" Nothing will tend more to promote the pros. boiling, pounding.& c.,& c.
judgment says] conflicting that by if they default claims do railroads the perity inhabitants of this and city if of the than the question city the upon completion be the submitted proposition of these to ing large labor The is amount is saved tendency required, and of fuel to of not do, these one wear the- fourth washing SOAPS and
17th inst of of a subscription, to a reasonable amount, to the Clothes and remove the
, per- the condi-
Orange railroad
,
of
made soft
on
stock
are
the
, hands
the
the Balti- use the
,
bank forgeries in on that it be connected here with
and committed a Mr. Findley to pri more affirmative road,. they The will entire probably failure decide of the it in canal the clear same as and All those orders white ordinarily- promptly cost used of these.
project, so far as the interests of this city are awarded at
The excitement on Premiums
to have been very concerned, ought to stimulate the citizens to en- American Institute, copyright
courage 1851
