Public Life- Lesson to Young Men.
The distinguished Virginia statesman, Hon. John
Minor Botts, was a member of the Constitutional Convention
of his native State; and on the floor of that
body, lately made the following just remarks on the
emptiness of political preferment. The passages are
the best we have ever seen from the speeches of the
eloquent and fearless Botts:
" Public life has lost its charms for me, and there
is but one consideration that induced me to occupy
the position which I do at present before the people
of this district. Why should a man desire public
life? I can say with truth, that I never have spent a
day in public life that I did not pay dearly- dearly
for it- not only by my labor and my anxiety to serve
my constituents and my country, but from the deprivation
of the peace and tranquility that are the attributes
of my nature. I know that I am thought by
the world at large never to be satisfied unless I am
in hot water, but I prefer the cold most decidedly.
[ Laughter.] No sir, that is not my nature. And
then when you come to consider, not only what a
public man pays for his station by cares and anxieties
and the jealousies and prejudicies, the envy, jealousy
, hatred, malice and all uncharitableness to
which he is exposed, no man who has had the experience
in public life that I have had, can without a
vitiated taste, in my opinion, have any strong desire
for it. And what does he gain by it? Are the most
faithful, the most wise and the most virtuous of public
men, the men who generally receive the rewards
of their virtue and fidelity? Look over yonder to
Boston and there you will witness an occurrence,
which, in point of gratitude, has fallen to the lot of
more than one distinguished public man.
" What do you see? After a long, laborious, faith
ful and active life, spent in the service of that people,
shedding a lustre and renown upon his State, that no
other of his day could bestow upon it, a man who
was but yesterday the idol of his people, is actually
shut out of the cradle of liberty and not permitted to
address his own fellow- citizens in Faneuil Hall!
And yet when that dastardly, miserable miscreant,
that foreign interloper and mischief- maker who ought
to be subjected to that summary law that I am in
formed is very efficient now in California-( I beg
pardon as a public man and representative of the people
, for being betrayed into the expression of a single
sentiment that would give countenance to the law
called Lynch law, though in his case I should not regret
to see it exercised, and cannot help saying so)
that mischievous and intermeddling abolitionist,
George Thompson, had the doors of that hall thrown
open to him for his reception and subsequent use.
Yet they are closed to Daniel Webster!
" I have no wish, no desire for public life, and let
me in justice to myself disabuse the mind of any gentlemen
here who may have suspected that I was in
the slightest degree influenced in any position I have
taken, by any consideration of personal reward. I
say again that I should be happy, if I could be instrumental
in settling this question harmoniously and satisfactorily
, to retire to the shades of private life
the balance of my existence." for
