.) from the top of the Upper Fall to the foot of Con hour. To dye yellow with quercitron
, is 312 feet, and the distance is about two miles. The only necessary to scald some of it in a
through which the waters flow is often one hundred feet and use the clear dection by placing it
banks of stone almost perpendicular. The scenery
bringing it up to the boil, and using a
these falls is wild, picturesque and beautiful, and when
of the sulpho muriate of tin in the Equor. The
is high, is of much grandeur. The country adjointag
covered with forest trees, thus retaining for the ravine two or three dips in the liquor- each d p requ'ring
appearance, and constitutes the greatest charm of minutes handling- then an airing. Cotton and
. are boiled in the bark
liquor, but silk goods
VARICK STREET.- You will excuse our giv they are merely handled in the scalding hot liquor
makes a very beautiful color, but if buckwheat
your signature the street in which you reside. The fact
answer as good a purpose our farmers can
have received this week no less than fourteen no es
A Constant Reader," and as we cannot answer all ing yellows and browns, in the same manner
signature without creating confusion we are com it will be more convenient for them to use
adopt some other appellation. If correspondents the sulpho- murtate of tin, as the mordant.
take take the trouble te append their infitals or a known fact, that quereltron bark was evported
name by which they could be distinctly a ldr sed, they
delphia for many years to England, and used
please us not us to
of inquiries in the course of the week, wih" An C Ol ing yellow, before the secret of its use was
A Subscriber" Reader"
" A Coastant
., eic.,
appended, which often give us trouble than the in
involved, and which might in by GEN. WASHINGTON ON SLAVERY
our suggesdon ..... Tue" exact time" of the Ara
her shertest western voyage, was made in the month of Washington wrote to Lafayette:-" The scheme
1853. The Arabia left Liverpool at 2 2 1 P. M. on the 13th Marquis, which you propose as a precedent to
month, and arrived in New York at 7:55 A. M. of the emancipation of the black people of this country
time was 9 days, 17 hours and 55 minutes
. Her Aulek e of bondage in which they are held, is a striking
trip was made in the month of June, 1853. She left
at 12,56 P. M., June 15, and arrived at Liverpool on the benevolence of your heart. I shall be happy
of the same month, at 12 A. M.- exact time 9 days, in so laudable a work." In 1785, Washington
and 7 minutes. I seme distinguished gentleman:" The benevolence
ANXIOUS MOTHER.- Children heart, my dear Marquis, is so conspicuous
from seven to
that I never wonder at any fresh proofs of it
ought not to eat, rean stuifs, meat, fish, stale eggs, p
- fed milk, in the saminer months, especially. Farina, purchase of an estate in the colony of Cayenne
, home- made bread. corn bread, ripe fruit, samp, of emancipating the slaves on it, is a generous
, in
the form of pudding, rice piain, or made into to a of your humanity. Would to God a like spirit
not tco rich, arrow- root, ele .. e.c., make excellent
food self generally into the minds of the people of
at any y st season. We beg of you" Anxious Mother"*
have the welfare of your children at heart, not to pour I of it.
To set the slaves afloat at once would, I really
collee down their tender throats, on any occasion or un
pretext. Pure water is the very best Bufd that can be productive of much mischief and inconvenience
to quench their first. If they are fond of swees, grees it might, and assuredly ought to be effected
occasionally gorge th msives with the contents of too, by legislative authority." It makes a
- Low). Anoh r thought we would advise" Auzious Mo
sive commentary on this correspondence between
her einory- resuming that, as she has
the, on the subject
ble to and Lafayette of American
ask
she lollow directions
, wili in part our
les ber chlidr
,,
n remain out of bed la er than nine the words which the latter wrote from the
at night,
never dress them burg:" I know not what disposition
has been
them a thoroush sonsing in a tab of tepid water. Water plantation at Cayenne, but I hope that Madame
necessary to the
good food is to
y
of the s'omach of the ealele as will take care that the negroes who culticate it
their liberty." In 1786, Washington wrote to
C.-B. can recover from A. the thirty Mercer; I never mean, unless some
rent ...... The refusal of A. to comply with stances compel, me to it, to
the stipula posvess another
the null lease all lits it- in other our present understanding of the case cha se, it beleg among my first wishes to see some
stipulations
but of Present oust the him United your from States further, no enjoyment matter. 15. where can of the not brought property only up recover, .... is a ly which slavery in this country moy be abolished
swear it in. Should legal proceedings be Instituted A WHALE AMONG THE WHALEMEN
you you could probably bring diefent evidence to time since, a linback whale was seen and captured
your avermen. Heference to the family record, to the at Nantucket, by the captain and crew of the
by whom you were christened, or the evidence of the Lam P. Doliver. The schooner was bound
persons who attended in the neighborhood your mother at in pariutidiou which your, or parents the state re cruise; but, when off the bar, it was discovered
would be acceptable to the court. forgotten their chart. A boat was sent on
It would rest with the
prove that you were not born in the place you allege. the schooner lay to. awaiting the return of
JOACHIM HALEERT.- While Another was
we advocate was descried. boat instantly
diet in sultry chase given. They soon came up with the
weather, we don't exactly approve of
cabbage lance was shot Into it, which killed it at once
. Persons who pertate themselves to ba
" in that way, are apt to get into a" piekle from which of the boat the rebooner was worked alongside
nostrums ia Materia Medion cannot release them. Pickled taken in tow. The steamer Massachusetts was
occasionally, will not injure any one; but constant enme and took the schooner and whale in tow
on this class of food is very hurtfel even to the rootst
. them both into the harbor, where the whale
