On the 21st of April the General Secretary of State,
Two MORE MURDERS.- The Mariposa Chronicle publish of Westchester, N. Y. OF THE UNITED STATES OF
Senor Francisco A. Obregon, sent a circular to the Uni
es an account of one of the most horrible and cold blooded At sea, on board the schooner Ka Moi, William M. St. GREEKS OF MACEDONIA, THESSALY
ted States, Venezuelan and Denmark diplomatic agenta,
murders on record: Clair.
THRACE, ASIA MINOR, AND OF THE
informing them of the establishment of the provisional
A man named Crooks, formerly a resident of Mariposa, Near San Jose, Mr. Thomas P. Reid, of Brooklyn, L. I., Four hundred years of insupportable
government, and was very coldly received; their answer
and a person named Richard Thomas, had been on a aged 33 years and 7 months. merable and insufferable evils, brought
was, that they would inform their respective govern
drunken spree for a number of days, during which time In Stockton, Franklin Terry, infant child of David S. ments of the state of affairs. Mussulman yoke- a yoke that has made
they had some little difficulty. Several days after, Crooks and Cornelia Terry. to overflow with bitterness, force us to
went to the cabin of Thomas, after dark, and killed him In Big Oak Flat, Tuolumne county, Mr. Nelson Meyers,[ From the Aspinwall Courier, May 31.] that we may be free and assert the truth
The principal topic of interest that has been before the
with an axe, cutting his head almost through. He re said to be of Burlington, Vt., late of Plattsburg, N. Y. are born free and equal.
turned at once to Oak Flat( near which place the scene On the 1st of April, six miles below Virginia, William public of the Isthmus during the past fortnight, is the Christians of America, free and thrice
revolution started apparently by General Melo.
occurred), and informed the people of what he had done. P. Abeel, printer, of congestion of the brain, aged 30 of the United States! the present Pan-
It is about as farcical an affair as we have watched
He was arrested, and when Mr. Niles left( on Tuesday years. is but the continuation of the
great work
during our residence here. In the first place we are told
last) a large crowd had assembled and were about to give At Iowa Hill, Placer county, Mary Jane, infant daugh which then all rejoiced to aее.
on every hand that efforts are being made in the capital
him the benefit of Lynch law. On Monday, the day pre ter of James and Nancy Pile, aged 1 year and 11 months. When the citizens of the United States
to raise an émeute against the legitimate government.
vious to the above, a Mexican was killed at Garote( two At Gold Hill, Augustus, son of Dr. J. D. and Martha wrongs they bad compassion upon us,
The President, his Secretaries, and the entire Congress,
miles from Oak Flat) under the following circumstances: Tilson, aged 2 years and 8 months. The same assistance we again call for.
are fully posted as to those movements; and the matter
A Mexican had a slight difficulty with a Mexican woman Drowned, in Russian River, John Henderson, aged about is a righteous war. It is a just war on
living there, and assaulted her with a sword, inflicting a 28 years, a native of Daltimore. is allowed to progress, notwithstanding the open declara fight against oppression. The present
tion of its projectors, until an upstart soldier quite re
severe wound: her son, who was absent at the time, re At Sarahsville, Placer county, from injuries received struggle between light and darkness-
cently transformed from a regimental Colonel to a Gene.
turned soon after and immediately went in search of in a drift, John Williams, formerly from Brooklyn, New and the Koran.
ral, having secured the majority of the troops in the city
the man who had committed the outrage, and informed York. Americans! your former compassion
garrison( who were tired of doing nothing) in his favor,
him that he( the son,) intended to chastise him; upon In Marysville, Thomas Simkins, late proprietor of the Greeks has not been forgotten- by them
with the understanding, or at least without the opposi
which the other threw a large glass at the boy, and then New York Ranch on Feather River. name has ever been dear to the Grecian
tion of the President, imprisons the entire government,
stooped to get a pick helve, lying near, when the boy At Nevada, J. L. Randall, late of Union county, Illi gratitude for your past compassion exists
and took possession of the city.
drew his revolver and shot him in the groin, the ball nois, aged 32 years. day.
Herrera, Arosemana, and several others, then fled,
passing through him, causing instant death. The boy The Grecian people, turning their eyes
and having found' refuge in a small town in the interior,
was arrested, examined, and discharged. Markets. see that they have done nothing to prevent
they established the substitute government, and issued
FOUR MORE LIVES LOST AT THE WRECK OF THE SAN FRANCISCO, May 15, 1854. asking again your assistance.
GOLDEN exceedingly grandiloquent declarations concerning the
