men, passed May 3, 1855. as a member of the
committee appointed by the Board, and in
conjunction with the other members.
He neither bought the liquors on his own
account, nor paid the money for them, nor kept
them in his own possession: but he acted
throughout as a member of this committee,
regularly appointed by the Board of Aldermen
Thus the liquors were obtained in the manner
required by law, were received and taken in
possession as the law provides, and for the
use and benefit of the city.
The assertions of the State of Maine, therefore,
as far as they conflict with the above, are utterly
groundless and false.
In the afternoon of Saturday, immediately on
the opening of the Police Court, Royal Williams,
Joshua Stephens, and Alvin S. Dyer, appeared
before the court for the purpose, as Mr. Williams
stated, of making a complaint against Mayor
Dow for having liquors unlawfully in his
sion. posses
They were accompanied by an officer( Mr.
Bradley) and there soon appeared in the court
room a dozen or fifteen of our citizens, well known
as bitter opponents of the liquor law. But the
Judge looked into the law and satisfied himself in
a moment that his duty under the circumstances
was explicit and obligatory. He immediately
therefore put the complainants under oath, and
required if they could conscientiously swear that
they had reason to believe, and did believe, that
the specified liquors were kept by Mr. Dow, and
were intended for sale within the State in violation
of the law."
They hesitated at first, but Mr. Williams having
made substantially the same statements which
had appeared in the State of Maine and Argus,
finally said they were ready to take requisite oath
and sign the complaint; and these three men
made the solemn oath and signed the complaint.
The judge at once proceeded to make out the
warrant. When it was finished he handed it to
Deputy Marshall Ring, who was present at the
orders to execute it. should be
stated that these warrants have invariably been
given to the City Marshall or his deputies in
perference to other officers, because the former
being on salaries, make out their costs to the
instead of having them in the
city accrue as
,,
case of other officers, to themselves, thus saving
the amount to the city treasury.
But in this proceeding the receipt of the warrant,
by clicer hing appeared to occasion a sudden
disappointment to the complainants and their
friends. Mr. Williams stepped forward and
demanded the warrant. The court informed him
it was given in the usual manner, into the handslime
of a competent o ficer, who would no doubt prosed
perly attend to it execution. Mr. Williams again
demanded it, asser ting his right to it as one of the
complainants. Le was told he had made his
complaint, taken his oath, affixed his signature
and there was no more for him to do until the
day of trail. Mr. Williams then demanded the
warrant of officer Ring, who referred the matter
to the court, the latter made the explanation
as before. and dues bas de
Mr. Williams then began talking in a bois.
terous manner, but was informed that he would
be expelled from the court room unless he desisted.
The complainants and their friends soon quietly
disappeared. Officer Ring then went to the cellar
in the City Hall, where the liquors were deposit
ed, and took possesssion of them ander the
warrant, which he now retains. He would have
arrested Mayor Dow on Saturday aftenoon if
there had been time for trail- Mr. Williams also
suggested to the court ample time should be
given for the trial.- As soon as the officer arrived
at the City Hall, a large crowd began to assemble
round the building, with all the demonstrations of
disturbance.
At the fact of officer Ring's having the warrant
they manifested the same indignant disappointment
which had been displayed by the complainants.
Whether this large crowd, so made up and so
assembled at that critical moment, evidenes a pre
concerted movement to riotously get possesation
of the liquors, in the event of officer Brady's
executing the warrant- we leave every fair mind
to decide. The facts are undeniable.
Certain it is that that body of disorderly men
were there for no good or lawful purpose, and the
fact that they assembled in so short a period of
time after the warrant was issued, would indicate
that they must have had some previons know-
ofledge of or intimation of the proceedings.
At an early hour in the evening there was a
large crowd around the building- A little atter
o'clock the Marshal with some six or eight of
the police, armed with pistols, entered the room
where the liquors were stored. About half past
8, the mob began to throw stones against the
door on Congress street, breaking out the glass in
the upper part of the door. The Marshal then
gave orders to the police to keep on either side of
the door, so as to be out of reach of any stones
that might come in and not to fire their pistols
,
until some one should attempt to enter In the
meantime the marshal repeatedly cautioned the
mob to desist upon peril of their lives and in the
course of the evening they were ordered to
disperse by the Sheriff of the county and also by
the Mayor.
At length one man who appeared to be the
ringleader in the mob came to the door swearing
horrible oaths, and using most insulting and
violent language towards the police in the room.
He called them" a pack of damned cowards,"
challenged them to fire, and taunted them by
saying that they did not dare to fire. Then he
harangued the mob, urging them to come on,
assuring them that there was no danger- that the
police were cowards, and had only blank
cartridges, and did not dare fire upon them if
they had. The marshal again warned him upon
peril of his life not to attempt to enter the room.
But under his leadership the mob made a violent
rush for the door, which however, proved too
strong for them.
The police then fired intentionally aimed over
their heads, hoping to frighten and thus avoid the
necessity of killing. This checked them for a
few minutes, but the same voice was again heard
rallying the mob, assuring them that nobody was
hurt- that they were only blank catridges& c.& c ..
and another rush was made for the door, the
leader reaching in and attempting to unbar it.
The police then fired with effect. One man,
named Robbins, as we are informed. a mate of an
Eeastport vessel- fell dead or murtaliy wounded
close dy the door, and it is supposed he was the
man who had been so busy in exciting the mob.
as that voice was not heard again during
evening. the
Of this however, the police are not certain, as
they were not able clearly to distinguish objects
in the darkness and confusion. Prior, however, to
this firing by the police a military company,
" The Light Guards" or a portion of the company,
marched through the crowd and took a position
in front of the door on Congress street when the
mob began to pelt them with and
stones several
,
of the soldiers were severly injured. An order
was given to them to fire, thinking that the order
itself might possibly terrify the mob. But the
order was not executed, and the company finally
retired to their armory, some what in confusion.
The" Rifle Guards was then called upon, and
promply responded to the call. Mayor Dow,
with Aldermen Carleton and Brooks( the committee
appointed by the Bord of Aldermen) put himself
at their head- they marched into the armory of
the Light Guards and took their guns,( as their
rifles were without bayonets) secured some cartridges
and then marched down through the crowd
and into the door on Middle street. Orders were
given for them to fire through the door on Congress
street, in squads of four. This order was
executed, with what effect we are not able
definitely to state- but the report is that one
man( an Irishman) was killed, and some six
less severely wounded. or
