The West Bend Case- Interesting Partieu
lars.
WEST BEND, Aug. 8, 1855.
To the Editors of the Sentinel:
GENTLEMEN: I came to this place last night,
and have spent some time to- day, in ascertaining
the facts and circumstances in regard to the murder
committed by George De Bar, who was lynch
ed here yesterday. The result is that I have a
greater Horror than ever of the lynch law, The
excitement is now over, and even here you cannot
find one but condemns the proceedings of yesterday
, tot one but denies he was in the mob or
encouraged it- not one but speaks of it as a cowardly
act, and compare- ho, they do not compare
the two military companies that came here to old
women, bat say, that any ten old women with
broomsticks would make a more forcible military
power than they. The old women advised some
of the soldiers to lay by their uniforms, so that
they would never disgrace them again.
But to the case. I went this morning to see the
woman and man who had been wounded by De
Bar, and the premises where the murder was committed
. The woman was sitting up in bed, ap-
parently injured badly, I did not see the wounds
they being bandaged. She is very comfortable
and out of danger; she talks easily and with a
good strong voice. She has been a fine looking
woman, and would be now were it not for the
hardships imposed upon her by her husband.
She is now but twenty years of age, and has been
married two years. She separated from him
about a year after her marriage on acount of his
unkindness to her. So mtch for her.
Of the man John Muehr, one cannot think,
without a feeling of disgust. He seems to think
of nothing but his loss- his shanty is burnt, and
some thirty or forty dollars, perhaps more, of
property ruined by the fire. You con hardly get
from him any connected account of the transaction
at his house, he is so anxious to display be
fore you his personal losses. Before I had got
half through with an examination of the premises
, he solicited me, a perfect stranger to him,
to use I return
to obtain contributions for him, on account of his
losses. Most of the money he had, he has al-
ready found in the ashes of his burnt.-
But by dint of questions I obtained from shanty him the
