From the National Anti- Slavery Standard.
THE CHARACTER OF THE NORTHERN
EMIGRATION TO KANSAS.
The presses of the slave States, of which it
may be said with striet truth that they print
and publish, either under fear of Lynch law,
or under the inspiration of its spirit, have
stigmatized our fellow- citizens, who have nobly
volunteered to pioneer freedom into Kan
sas, as" crime- polluted and paupers." We
refer more particularly to the Richmond En-
quirer, but the calumny has gone the rounds
of the slave newspapers.
From what we know of our neighbors and
our acquaintances who have gone to Kansas,
and all that we have heard and read of others,
we feel confident that a more baseless and li
bellous assertion could not be made. This
emigration is as that of the Pilgrims
pure as
or the Huguenots, and more disinterested than
either.
But admitting, for argument's sake, that
the assertion were true, would it not be highly
. commendable in these men and women to
arouse themselves, in the face of brutal and
murderous threats and outrages, to this effort
new life? What
for independence and a
better could they do for themselves, their
families or their country, that to start afresh
on a virgin soil, remote from painful recollections
and depressing influences? In all ages
colonization has received its greatest impulses
from the necessities, sufferings and often despair
of those who have achieved it. Even
, criminals of a deep dye, have been more rationally
employed in laying the foundation of
new States than of dangling idly in the air,
which Voltaire justly called the poorest use
, that could be made of them. They obtain in
new settlements the consolation of true demo-
cuatic equality the encouragement of
sympa
,-
and the
thy, purifying and strengthening influences
of conscious independence. Hence
respectable communities and States have
great
grown out of penal colonies, and men and
women who left their country for their coun
! try's good" have made a good country for
themselves.
For example, Virginia, magna mater,
magna virum, the mother of nearly every one
of those States which propagate the malicious
if libel to which we allude and which
would be
aristocratic and inhuman even
,
if it were not
false, was the receptacle of a population trans-
, ported from the mother country as a commutation
for
hanging and other terriable
punishments
of felony. It would seem as if the
, most desperate of those felons had got the
elixir of life, had now gathered in Missouri,
accomplished of their
the
to Legislature
gang of Kansas A
lively
,
.
impression of the foregoing historical fact is
is conveyed in a passage of Defoe, author of
. Robinson Crusoe, who was nearly contemporary
with the commencement of the system of
deportation, and precisely contemporary with
that state of colonial society which he des-
- cribes: ---
" We arrived at York River, in Virginia, and
coming to our plautation we were received by my
husband's mother, with all the tenderness and
affection that could be expressed. My mother
, was divert a me mighty with good abundance- natured of woman stories, and about used the to
the often told me that
- the greatest part of the inhabitants of that
were of two sorts. First, such as were brought colony
