From the Wesleyan.
MERCY TORTURED INTO CRIME.
Read the facts narrated below and feel
your blood boil. Read the cause of offence
and thank God that humanity is not crushed
out of every man who lives within the reach
of slavery. Read Davis's appeal to his brethren
and sisters for their justification and let
,
your heart throbs answer the question. Read
the last words about his aged parents, and let
the unpidden tear drop scalding hot from your
red eye calls- for you will weep. Bliading
drops prevent a finish to these hurried words.
They are sent forth, hissing with contempt and
hate for slavery, to inspire in your hearts like
passion.
" Pardon Davis, a citizen of Marquette
county, Wisconsin, and a member of the Seventh
- Day Baptist Church, at Berlin, in said
county and state, had been spending some
time in Tenessee Parish, Lousiana, engaged
in business. In September last, however, he
had settled up his business in Louisiana, and
was upon the point of returning to the North,
when he was met by a slave hunter with his
dogs, who drew a revolver, and threatened to
fire upon him, in case he should stir or make
a noise. He was brought before a magistrate,
who informed him that he was accused of
aiding slaves from
to their
escape masters
.
The whole town was soon assembled in a high
,
state of excitement.
The citizens, fearing
that the evidence
against him would
prove
insufficent, formed themselves into a mob for
the purpose of inflicting lynch law in case he
should be cleared. Some cried, hang him!
some, Shoot him! others, Give him a thousand
lashes on the bare back! No one dared to
speak a word in his behalf, save a lawyer
from Mississippi. He informed the prisoner
that the chances were against him that if
-
he had been charged with larceny, or even
murder, there might be hope, but little hope
as the case was He was conducted
. to
jail,
through a heavy rain where he loaded
, was
with irons, his feet put into iron stocks, his
hands coupled together with iron handcuffs,
closely fitted. These last were subsequently
" The prisoner subsequently had
his trial
,
and was sectenced to twenty years' confinement
in the State Prison of Louisiana, and is
now at Baton Rouge, suffering this penalty.
" From a touching letter, written by the
prisoner, in the jail, awaiting his trial, addressed
to his brethren and sisters in Berlin
Church, we copy a statement of the accusa-
tions against him, and the occasion of his
arrest. We remark it was not proven that
he furnished fanticious passes to the fugitives
as charged by his accusers; it was simply al-
ledged that the passes resembled his writing,
ink, paper,& c.
" The cause of my being arrested, as stat
ed by Mr. Perkins, the negro- hunter, is: A-
