California News.
[ Por the Northern Light.]
The interesting news for the two weeks
ending the 20th ult., has been of the" horrible
catastrophe" sort. of
The Indians on the Columbia and Rogue
rivers are at open war with the whites, and
the struggle threatens to be serious in its
consequences. An Indian agent named Bo
lon was murdered by the Yakumas in Washington
Territory, about the 25th of September
and then a confederation was organized and
,
among various tribes for a general war upon
the whites. Maj. Haller went out from the
Dalles on the 3d of October, with 100 U. S.
troops to chastise the offenders, but he and
his force were surrounded by about 500 Indians
, and when last heard from had been
beseiged for two days, during which time
they had had no water. The Oregonians
were hurrying to relieve the soldiers. Fur- the
ther particulars will be found published below
.
In Rogue river valley the Indians murder- in
ed tour or five miners and packers, about the
5th of October. The miners in the valley
raised a company of 150 volunteers, marched
out against the redskins and defeated them
in a battle, killing about 40; about 30 whites the
have been killed.
Another tragic murder and Lynch- law ex.
-ecution took
County, on the State Colombia, Tuolumne
9th of September. John
Heron Smith a young and popular miner
,
,
went somewhat intoxicated into a house of
,, age
the
A tumbler was broken in the room, and Mar-
the requested Smith to pay for it. He took
hold of her roughly, tore her dress and forced
her down into a chair. Her husband, named
John S. Barclay, came in., and after a few
words with shot him dead.
was taken by the mob, who were at first die
posed to trust in the care of the statutes and
the courts, but they were induced by inflam-
matory harangues to change their determin- al
ation. They held a Lynch court, and heard
the witnesses. When the jury was about to
retire, the Sheriff of the county had arrived
and he seized the prisoner; but, after using of
so
every exertion, and exposing himself to imminent
danger, he was driven off by force.
Whether the jury found Barclay guilt or
sentenced him to be hung, is not stated in its
the papers, but hanged he was under a large
mining flume, about twenty feet from the
ground, at midnight, in the midst of the glare
of torches and the shouts of the crowd.
of
andOn the 7th of October a party of Chinamen
, while asleep at night in their tents,
near St. Louis, Sierre county, were attacked
slain and several others severely wounded.
The robbers took$ 1,100 in dust from the
tents. to audied hetsg
On the 6th of October the flourishing village
at Scott's bar, on the Klamath, was destroyed
by fire, causing a loss of thirty- two
thousand dollars. for
The returns from the various county as All
sion
uation of property during the last year. The
decrease amounts to fifteen or twenty per
on
cent. on real estate in the business portiona
of San Francisco.,
