DISGRACEEL DISTURBANCE- The Bath
( e.) Tribune, of the 12th ultimo, furnishes the following
a
mob in that city, on Sunday, the 11th
We hoped, when we chronicled
of the Old South Church in ANDRE, de la Paroisse
outrage never again upon be the pained dry, Administrateur de la Suc
the temper of many femme, tous deux décédés
On Sunday, as the Cadita Paroisse avant
services to laying the corner
stone of a new church, a large concourse assembled
to witness the exercises, which were prevented by
rowdyism wdyism of of the the lowest lowest, sort or wooden, and violence cross,. which had
been erected, was forcibly pulled down.
Early in the afternoon an American flag was raised,
amid the cheering of a considerable number of per
sons, who showed themselves hostile to the exercises
GINI 10
occasion.
Mr. Russell, acting Mayor, pulled the flag down,
hustle!" hisses But
of" him out and
amid shouts.
on his leaving it was again put up.
A rush was made for the corner stone, which had
been previously laid, and several attemptu made to
remove it from its setting, which was prevented, as
we learn, by the exertions of Marshal Walker and
at
There was much bad talk, shouting, fighting,& c.
The Catholics, finding they would be opposed in
their exercises, quietly withdrew and left the mob
in possession of the field.
No attempt that we hear of was made to arrest
any of the disturbers of the peace up to 4 o'clock.
At about 5 o'clock, the crowd, having accomplish
ed their objects, and the religious exercises
, gradually dispersed. slusels 211
word to his parish that the exercises would not be
held.
Some injury was done to private property, and
nuisances committed, of which it is not decent to
speak.eut ni hue we
We blush to think that in this city of churches,
and law and order, the Sabbath should be broken
by such scenes of lawlessness and violence. We
e mortified that a few low and irresponsible persons
should be permitted to again blacken the character
of our city, and think themselves upheld by
the majority of its voters.
three things in the Peacock are very
characteristic the garb an angel, the
walk of a thief, and the voice of of a devil.
