ny other prominent and influential residents of
California who intend returning with their families
.
There were still some cases of cholera on the
Isthmus.
The Golden Gate arrived at Panama on the
11th inst., and the steamship Winfield Scott the
same evening.
The steamship Columbia was to leave San
Francisco with the regular mail.
The baggage of Gov. Purdy, Maj. Sibley and
others, was robbed at Cruces of a large amount
of gold.
The San Francisco Whig says that Sonora,
the chief city of the southern mines is laid in
ruins.
There is no need to particularize or give de-
tails in regard to who are
are not. All, all is gone.
The fire commenced on Friday morning, the
18th inst., a little after 1 o'clock.
It broke out in the building on the Plaza, call
ed the Hotel de France, and facing upon Washington
st., from thence it spread in a southerly
direction until it had swept every building that
had any connection with its neigbors, including
the whole of the centre block and both sides of
east and west Washington sts. The Masonic
Hall, the last building on Washington st., was
entirely gutted. The adobe walls only remain.
The whole northern end of the city, from the
place of commencement to the Barnum House,
on Main st., has been consumed. The wind
soon took a turn northward, and the fire spread
rapidly.
Great efforts were made to stop the flames,
but all were unavailing. The intensely inflama
ble nature of the material dried up thoroughly
as it had been by a month of continual hot
weather, combined with a scarcity of water, rendered
it an impossibility to effect any good.-
The consequence is that the whole city has been
consumed, with the exception of a few scattered
buildings on the outskirts of the city, together
with a great portion of the suburbs of Sonorita.
The safes of all the banking houses are preserved
without injury and also the County records.
Crime continues to increase all through the
Murders and robberies and all other
country.
villanies are as rife as ever and Lynch law is
still in demand.
Miners on Carson's Creek are averaging$ 12
per day.
The opposition Quartz Companies of Finnegan
& Morgan are both at work for disputed
veins.
The steamships Oregon and Pacific arrived at
San Francisco on the 29th ult.,
The Agricultural resources are but just being
developed.
In Mariposa county the crops promise great
abundance. It is estimated that there are be
tween 50 and 75,000 acres of agricultural lands
in San Joaquin.
Oregon dates of the 22d ult. are received.-
The election on the 7th is claimed to have resulted
in a Democratic victory in both branches
of the Legislative Assembly. The U. S. surveying
schooner Baltimore, arrived at Astoria
on the 10th to resume the survey of the Columbia
river.
San Francisco markets, money is in good demand
at 24 a 3 per cent; the stock of flour is
small, prices tend upwards; boots aud shoes in
good demand, and prices well sustained- prices
of clothing are well sustained. Dry goods gen-
erally firm. Brown, domestics are very quiet.
Leather sells in small parcels at fair
Lumber market has improved. rates.-
