Mr. Wm. Joyce returned to his home
to find it a mass of mouldering ruins,
and with the assistance of the neighbors
instituted a vigorous investigation of
the premises, and the cause of the disaster
. Suspicion at once fastened upon
several of the nagroes in the vicinity,
and on searching the premises of Mr.
Pendleton, a watch, coat, pants, and
other things the of Wm Joyce
, property
.
were found secreted under the house.-
Bill, a slave of Mr. Pendleton, was then
arrested, and confessed that he and
three others murdered
the family, plon-
dered and then fired the house. At this
revelation the greatest excitement prevailed
, and lynch law was about to be
enforced at once, but calmer judgement
over- ruled the action of the more has
ty, and the three other negroes implicated
were caught and tied to stakes to
make them confess their participation
in the bloody deed, They were Jack
and George, slaves of Hiram and Lew
is Samuels, and a boy of George Brown's
a resident of Jefferson county, and the
nearest neighbor of the Joyce family
The others are residents of Bullit county
. The slave of Mr. Brown was ar
rested late in the evening. They all
deny the murder, though suspicion, a
side from the confession of Bill, is very
strong An examination
of the negroes was about to be instituted
by local magistrates, but the feelings of
the community were so highly excited
that it deferred
was and that
, we learn
a strong force was bringing them here
to be lodged in jail.
From the confessions of the slave of
Mr. Pendleton, it appears that the negroes
hearing that Wm. Joyce was ab
sent from home, had determined to rob
the house, under the belief that be had
a large sum of money. They went to
the house about midnight, broke open
the door, and encountered Richard Joyce
the brother of Williams. He was brain
with a club in the presence of his
mother aged mother
seized a pair of tongs to rush to the defence
of her son, but on the instant was
attacked by the negroes, one of whom
a
The daughter, Mrs. Welch, attempted
to escape out of the window, but was
caught by the feet, dragged back; and
then beaten to death. The infuriated
ruffians then sacked the house, took the
little girl of Mrs. Welch, threw it upon
the bed, set fire to it and fled, the child
being actually burnt alive. The house
and contents were destroyed, and the
murderers thought their horrible crime
would not be revealed, but the discovtorial
ery of a portion of the property, and
the of one
has brought the awful crime to light,
and terrible will be the punishment.
The people are aroused, and Yengence
dire will be visited on the heads of the
misguided wretches. The strong arm
of the law should deal with the guilty,
and it is hoped that it will prevail.
Since writing the above, we learn
that the people of the neighborhood as-
sembled and avowed a determination to
hang the murderers on the spot. They
were then in custody of a party of the
friends of Mr. Joyce, who started with
them to this city. On the road they
were met by a deputation of citizens of
Jefferson
with
several from this city, finally persuaded
them to bring them to bring them here
and let the law have its course. This
was finally acceded to and they were
lodged in jail yesterday afternoon. A
hand- axe dyed in blood was found
the possession of one of the negroes. in
