house was burnt to the ground late Thursday night, mate conqueror
and the next morning an investigation led to the prosperity, wealth
horrible belief that the entire household had been both powers,
murdered. The charred remains of the two women complete industrial
were found near the fire place, while those of the ty of these awful
young man were lying in the place supposed to have sidered by all.
been occupied by the bed. the most solemn
Mr. Win. Joyce returned to his home to find it a offensive party
mass of emouldering ruine, and, with the assistance ing its course, to
of the neighbors, instituted a vigorous investigation for the aggrieved
of the premises, and the cause of the disaster. Sus party. The south
pioion at once fastened upon several of the negroes in do nothing except
the vicinity, and, on searching the premises of Mr. ally to every
Pendleton, a watch, coat, pants, and other things, the sion, which will
property of Mr. Joyce, were found secreted under the ruin." Rather
house. Bill, a slave of Mr. Pendleton, was then arfer any hazards
rested, and confessed that he and three others murder all the calamities
ed the family, plundered and then fired the house. if necessary, by
At this revelation the greatest excitement prevailed, dom, rather than
and lynch law was about to be enforced at once, but gling to the last
ealiner judgment overruled the action of the more then, we are such
basty, and the three other negroes implicated were necessary and
caught and tied to stakes to make them confess, which influence to
they finally did, and were commttied to jail. They entire submission
about midnighi,
stated that they went to the house The supposed
broke open the door, and encountered Richard Joyce, the geographical
the brother of William. He was brained with a club is as groundless
in the presence of his mother and sister The aged for war in the
.
,
mother seized a pair of tongs to rush to the defence sent confederacy
of her son, but on the instant was attacked by the particular cause
negroes, one of whom knocked her senseless with a a navigable river
club. The daughter, Mrs. Welch, attempted to and the peages
escape out of a window, but was caught by the feet, world. As,
dragged back, and then beaten to death. The infu- with very geal
riated ruffians then sacked the house, took the little examine and
girl of Mrs. Welch, threw it upon the bead, set tance would
fire to it and fled, the child being actually burnt ed in the next
alive.
MURDER IN ST. LOUIS.
The St. Louis Democrat of Monday states that on Before coming
the day previous a man named E. H. Cleveland.was vigation of the
murdered in the Virginia Hotel of that city, under prietors, it will
the following circumstances: principles, as
He was found lying in his room with a deep bowie to the past history
knife out in his breast, and the knife lying upon his respect to the
intention When Roman
with of the
body. He had just paid his bill the
leaving, and had gone a few minutes before to his of the known
room, in company with a man named Wm. T. Alex- barian world, the
countries
The latter had disappeared ferent
ander Wm Sharp,
or..
, their verdict, accused him of the nations. It
.
,
and the jury, in their verdict, accused him of the nations. It not
murder, as his overcoat was found beside the de. then, but its
ceased and the knife is believed to have be- were preserved
in the understood
longed to him. Deceased was not robbed, a con
eiderable sum of money being found on his remains tions between
Europe in the
as well as a gold watch.
and the modern
FONT HILL- Forrest has disposed of his coun maintain the right
both sides of the
the Hudson Font Hill to the Sisters of
try seat on,
, to use the lower
Charity, who will take immediate possession.
They pay for it$ 100,000, two- thirds in cash, the navigation, and
balance,$ 33,333 secured by bond and mortgage ocean, or to foreign
twenty years. Mr .. Forrest obligating himself to pro freights of the
tect the purchasers against the claims of Mrs. Forrest a lower, while
are, of course,
for right of dower.
This is a valuable piece of property, consisting we of the country
believe of about forty acres of land, a large granite passes, and to
&
lodge other spection)
cand
sub-
mansion
,
castelated porter's
.
,
,
stantial out- houses, all new and in perfect order. It laws. Except
beautifully located, some two miles south of the safeguards of
is Yonkers landing, containing some of the finest views free to the vessels
