SUMMARY VENGEANCE BY MOB ON OLD
MAN AND HIS SONS CHARGED
WITH THEFT.
Bieber, Cal., May 31.- Details have been received
here of the lynching of five men at Lookout, Modoc
County, early this morning. The lynched were
Calvin Hall, seventy- two years old, his three half
breed sons, Frank, James and Martin, aged respectively
twenty- six, nineteen and sixteen, and B.
D. Yantis, aged twenty- seven
As reported here, the men lynched had been suspected
of petty stealing for some time. Last Saturday
they were arrested for stealing barbed wire,
pieces of harness and some hayforks. A search
warrant was issued, and the harness and forks
were found in the houses of Hall and Yantis, who
were taken into custody and brought to Lookout,
where they were being held awaiting examination
and trial. On Sunday and for several days follow
ing other searches were instituted, and halters,
dishes and table linen, which had been taken from
clotheslines, were found hidden on the premises of
the suspected parties.
The charge against the elder Hall was petty
larceny for stealing the forks, hence he was al
lowed to go on his own recognizance. His trial
was to have taken place this morning. The charge
against the others was burglary, and their examination
had been set for June 3. They were held
in custody, as they were unable to furnish bail in
the sum of$ 300. Pending their examination they
were being guarded in the Lookout Hotel by Con
stable Carpenter, assisted by R. Nichols, J. W.
Brown and S. Goyette. The two former stood guard.
till midnight and the two latter took their places
after midnight. Calvin Hall was stopping at the
hotel so as to be near his sons.
This morning about 2 o'clock a mob, variously estimated
at from thirty to fifty persons, made its
appearance at the hotel, and, pointing guns at
the two offlcers on guard, commanded them to ob
serve silence, while they secured the five prisoners
, placed ropes around their necks and dragged
them toward the bridge which crosses Pitt River.
They compelled the two guards to accompany
them.
Frank Hall, it is reported, made such strong resistance
that the mob hanged him before it got to
the main bridge, under a small bridge crossing a
deep slough. The others were taken to the main
bridge, and Calvin Hall, the father, was hanged on
the north side, and Yantis and the other Hall boys
were hanged on the south side of the bridge. As
soon as the lynching was discovered word was telegraphed
to the District Attorney and Sheriff at
Alturas, and they, together with the coroner, are
now on the way to the scene of the tragedy to hold
an inquest.
Lookout, the scene of the lynehing, is in the Hot
Springs Valley on Pitt River, twenty- five miles from
Alturas, the county seat of Modoc County. There
is no telegraphic communication with the valley,
and the news of the lynching was brought to Al
turas by a courier The residents
. of Hot Springs
Valley are nearly all cattle- raisers in Modoc
County.
CHARGED od WITH KIDNAPPING.
