DENMARK'S LYNCHING.
The Negroes of Charleston Adopt De
nunciatory Resolutions.
Charleston, S. C., May 10. The Den
mark lynching does not seem to be ready
to down. The negroes throughout the
state are very much excited over the mat
ter, more especially in view of the unanimity
with which the newspapers of the
state condemn the so- called murder. An
immense mass meeting was held here to
night in one of the largest colored
churches, and the following resolutions
were adopted.
Resolved. That in the recent lynching of
John Peterson at Denmark, a man declared
to be innocent by the one upon whom the
crime was claimed to have been committed,
was a most aggravated murder, was perpetrated
by the so- called best citizens of Den
mark, disgracing the state and insulting the
sense of justice by taking human life without
evidence of the guilt of the accused.
Resolved. That we believe that Gov. Till
man, to whom the said John Peterson applied
for protection, in sending him unguarded to
the scene of the outrage, where a mob was
known to be assembled, became, by said act,
a party to the crime, and, therefore, together
with the lynchers, merits the condemnation
of all right thinking people.
Resolved. That in the more recent lynching
of a colored man in Williamsburg county.
another blot has been put upon the name of
South Carolina, which brings to her the
greater shame when it is considered that
notwithstanding the fact that the white people
control the entire machinery of justice in
the state they resort to mob violence instead
of pursuing the course prescribed by law.
Resolved. That while we advise our people
to be orderly and lawabiding citizens, to keep
the case by earnest prayer before the great
judge, we say also that the time is quite at
hand for the men of the negro race to make
special provision for the protection of them
selves and families against these outrages
which may at any time be visited on them
selves, and especially do we advise this course
to those in the rural parts, considering the
dangers to which they are always exposed.
Resolved. That we appreciate the manly
and equitable stand by the
of the state of South Carolina and other states
in the case of the lynching of John Petersor,
fully believing that as they stood for law and
order in this case they will always contend
for justice and equity for all the people.
These resolutions were signed by all the
colored ministers.
It is more than probable that a move
ment will soon be started looking to the
emigration of all the negroes from Barn
well county and that an appeal will be
made to the people that have the nature
to contribute to aid the movement. Only
one newspaper in the state excuses the
lynching of Peterson and the action of
the governor in sending him unguarded
to the mob that lynched him, and an
overwhelming majority of the decent
white people in the state condemn
lynching. the
