Shameful Record.
A Wild Epidemic of Negro Lynching
Running Through the South.
The South presents a revolting record of
barbarism this week. No less than nine
negroes have been lynched in different
places in Mississippi, five shot in Alabama,
three hanged and one kicked to death in
New Orleans, while in Virginia the militia
shot down eight members of a lawless mob
who were attempting to lynch a negro.
Probably the worst case was that in New
Orleans where a desperate negro named
Julian shot the judge who was trying him
for a trifling offence and then hid in a
swamp back of the city. His mother, two
sisters and three brothers, who had committed
no offence, were arrested and put
in jail. Two of the brothers who were
suspected of knowing where the fugitive
was hiding, were taken from the jail by a
mob, carried to a pasture and strung up.
This done the mob returned to the jail,
took the younger brother and hanged him,
and then kicked to death a fourth negro
who refused to tell, or did not know, where
Julian was hiding. The whole trouble
grew out of the bad feeling aroused in an
election contest in which a negro was candidate
for the office to which the murder
ed judge was elected.
The Mississippi case was not less brutal
and unjustifiable. A negro named Jack
son was suspected of putting poison in the
well of a family at Quincy, which made
them violently ill and two children died.
The negro was taken from the officers by a
masked mob and hanged. His wife and
mother, who were examined by a jury and
discharged, were also seized by the mob
and hanged, and another negro man, who
was said to have furnished Jackson with
the money to buy the poison, also became
a victim of the mob's vengeance.
At Carrollton, Ala., four negro men and
one woman were in jail, charged with
burning a set of buildings. A mob took
them all out and hanged them.
Robert Smith, a negro, assaulted and
nearly killed Mrs. Henry Bishop, the wife
of a well- to- do farmer near Roanoke, Va.,
Wednesday. Smith was arrested and placed
in jail. During the evening a large crowd
gathered about the jail. Mayor Trout ordered
out the local militia to guard the
jail. After the mob had been refused admittance
to the jail they began to shoot,
and the mayor was wounded in the foot.
The mayor then ordered the militia to re
turn the fire, and a volley of 25 rifles was
poured into the mob. Eight men were
killed and a dozen wounded. During the
excitement Smith was taken from the jail
and secreted by the officers. He was
found by the mob early in the morning
and lynched, and his body taken to the
river bank and burned in the presence of
infuriated mob of 1000 men. There is
an still great excitement in Roanoke.
