The Wichita Falls Lynching.
Wichita Falls, Tex., Feb. 27.- The incidents
immediately preceding the lynching
of Foster Crawford and Younger Lewis last
night were these: The jail was garrisoned
by six Rangers and twenty- five special
all day. The local authorities
deputies were in communication with Gov. Culber
son, and the state militia were expected
District
here to protect the prisoners.
Judge George Miller allowed the Rangers
to go home. They were worn out with
hard riding, and at 4:30 p. m. left for their
headquarters at Quanah. The funeral of
Dorsey, the murdered cashier, occurred at
5 o'clock, and the long procession of carriages
and the grief of the widow and
three orphans wakened the fires that bad
been smoldering all day, and there was
ominous activity apparent on the streets.
At dark the streets were nearly deserted,
and it began to be whispered that the fire
bell would be heard at night. Every one
understood that this was to announce that
preparations for the lynching had been
completed. At 9 o'clock the fire bell rang
out, and people could be seen coming from
everywhere. Everybody went toward the
jail. When the crowd had reached the steps
leading into the yard they found District
Judge Miller, Attorney R. E. Huff and District
Attorney Carter waiting for them.
Judge Miller and Huff addressed the
crowd, urging the abandonment of the
lynching. A voice from the crowd said:
" Think of the blood of poor Dorsey." Mil
ler replied:' If poor Dorsey could speak
to you tonight he would join with me in
asking you not to commit this great
wrong." Another voice rang out:" Think
of the poor widow."" The poor widow,"
said the judge," has already asked that
you abstain from violence and allow the
law to take its course." Cries from the
crowd, such as" Choke him off," followed,
but the crowd hesitated. They lacked organization
, and needed a leader. The
crowd, which numbered nearly 1,000, wav
ered, but as large numbers from the country
kept arriving fresh courage was inspired
, and the jail was finally surrounded.
Here a halt of two or three minutes was
made, and there was considerable cursing.
The crowd edged slowly toward the deputies
and made a rush. The door was brok
en open, and the men poured themselves
into the upper story of the jail, where the
prisoners were confined. The doors of the
cells in which the two men were locked were
forced, and an entrance effected. Foster
Crawford and Younger Lewis, alias The
Kid, greeted their captors with a" Howdy,
boys," telling them they were ready. They
were rushed to the vicinity of the
they had endeavored to rob, and lynched bank.
