The Arrest of Sanborn --- Further Particulars
.
It was stated Thursday that F. B. Sanborn, one
of the witnesses summoned by the United States
Senate committee of investigation in the Harper's
Ferry affair, but recusant to the writ, was arrest
on Tuesday evening at his house in Concord,
a
that he was subsequently discharged, on a writ of
habeas corpus, on the ground that the warrant
should have been executed by the sergeant- at
arnis in person. It appears that after the dis
charge of Sanborn, the authorities of Concord
caused to be arrested Silas Carleton, who served
the warrant, and George J. Coolidge, Watson
Freeman, Jr., and W. E. Tarleton, who assisted
in the arrest. They are charged with illegal proceedings
, and were held to appear to- day for a
hearing. The excitement against these men ran
very high at one time. They were roughly han-
died, and even threatened with lynch law, but in
the end better councils prevailed. The carriage
of the officers vas considerably damaged by stones
and other missiles. One door was broken and the
glass shattered. The Boston papers have long.
but very one- sided, particulars of the arrest of
Mr. Sanborn. We gather the following from the
Traveler:
The four men proceeded in a covered wagon to the
house of Mr, Sanborn, when about nine o'clock on
Tuesday night Freeman rang the door bell, and San
born's sister answered the call. Freeman asked if San
born was in and on being told that he said that
, was
,
he had a letter for him and wanted to see him. His
sister turued to go in to speak to her brother, and as
she went she heard a low whistle.
On turning again
she saw two or three men in the entry way, who immediately
seized Mr. Sanborn and attempted to carry
him from the house. His sister resisted to the ex
tent of her power, and Mr. Sanborn used all his pow
er in endeavoring to escape from the hands of the officers
, who by this titue hnd got the handcuff's upon
their prisoner. When they had got him to the door
the sister stopped her resistance and screamed to the
top of her voice, and alarmed the neighbor's, a score
of whom were soon on the spot. By the time they
got there Sanborn had been dragged into the middle
of the street, without his hat and in his stocking feet.
Sanborn at this point held up his manecled hands
over his head, and said," Citizens, look and see
what the United States Senate have done for ma.".
His remark made a great sensation among the crowd,
and matters begau to look squally for the U. S. officers
. In the meantime a messenger was despatched
to ring the bells, and soon they wese pealing out the
alarm upon the evening air. The crowd was momentarily
increasing.
Mr. Sanborn's sister, seeing the crowd surrounding
the officers and her brother, and that she could do no
more service there, seized the whip from the carriage
and began belaboring the horses in good earnest, but
one of the men took the whip from her. She then
jumped into the carriage to prevent her brother be
ing put into it, but she was taken out with more
force than politeness, having her clothes torn in the
struggle ..
Mr. Sanborn, in a statement which he published,
says:
Fifteen minutes after I was handcuffed, standing
in the street, Freeman read me a warrant from Vice
President Breckinridge, for my arrest, with an endorsement
from Mr. McNair, sergeant- at- arms of the
United States Senate, authorizing Silas Carleton to
seize me."
During the excitement the writ of habeas corpus,
was issued, which resulted in the prisonsr's being ta
ken out of the custody of the officers, and released
from arrest. Sanborn keeps a school at Concord,
and two of John Brown's daughters are among
pupils. his
