COLORED MAN
LYNCHED:
BURNED; SOLDIER JAIL
KILLED; 40 INJURED
Nebraska City Comparatively Quiet Under Martial
Law This Morning After Wild Night of
Terror- Mob's Victim Delivered Over to
by Fellow Prisoners of His Own Color Them After
Flames Drive Them From Roof of County
Prison -- City's Chief Executive Member of
Law Firm That Had Defended Alleged
can Assailants of White Women. Afri
WOOD CALLED TO OMAHA
Major General Leonard Wood, commander of the central
division, who reached Bismarck shortly after midnight this
morning to inspect Fort Lincoln, was called to Omaha by
the rioting there, and he left at 8:05 this morning on a
special train requisitioned from the Soo line for Oakes,
whence he expected to travel over the North- Western to the
Nebraska city. The major general's train consisted of an
engine and one passenger coach, and he was given the right
of- way over all traffic to Oakes, which point he was expected
to reach in record time. Omaha is in the division over
General Wood has command. which
Omaha, Neb., Sept. 29.- After a night of mob
rule during which a negro was lynched, an at
tempt made to hang the mayor of Omaha, Edward
B. Smith, the county court house burned, one man,
said to be an ex- soldier, shot and killed, and per
haps 40 others injured, the city was quiet today
under patrol of federal troops ordered from
Omaha and Fort Crook. Fort
The mayor is at a hospital and was still unconscious
early today as a result of the attempt by
the mob to hang him to a trolley pole because he
advised against the lynching of William Brown, a
negro who was in the county charged with
ing a white girl early last week. attack
C Dr. E. C. Henry, the mayor's physician, stated
the mayor suffered a bad wound over the
eye and had a bad wound around his neck. right
With federal troops patrolling both the negro
and downtown sections of the city, it was believed
that the authorities would be able to
vent'any possible fresh outbreak on the disorders pre.
Some of the soldiers were supplied with machine
guns.
Among those injured were a dozen police officers
, three prisoners in the county jail, several
firemen and numerous pedestrians. city
Situation Clears Up
Today the doings of last night at the court house began to
clear up. Until long after the early morning hours it was practically
impossible to get near that sector, the mob that held sway
over the buildnig for five hours making it dangerous to go near
the place. Later when a detachment of federal soldiers was sent
to the scene a cordon was once around the building and no one
permitted to approach it. at
When the mob gained entrance to the jail and a fire in the
building became menacing to 100 prisoners on the top floor,
Sheriff sent all the prisoners, including Brown, to the roof. The
sheriff and his deputies were guarding the entrance to the jail
and were able to keep back the mob for several hours. However,
as the heat became more intense, the prisoners themselves
action and delivered the negro to the mob. took
Mayor Smith was seized by the mob on 17th street, near the
court house, at 10 o'clock. He was hustled to Kearney street and
stopped at the foot of a trolley pole, where a rope was placed
around his neck. Appalled at the possibility of murdering the
city's chief executive, the crowd protested, and two officers
the rope, carried the mayor to an automobile and rushed him to cut a
Mayor Defending Negroes
The mayor's law firm is at present defending two negroes
charged with assaults on white women. The police assert that
fact had much to do with some of the remarks that were made by
members of the mob who had a hand in the attempt against his
life
. How Brown Met Fate
Sheriff Brown today told the story of how Brown finally
came into the possession of the mob.
" The deputy sheriffs had orders to hold Brown, and they did
all in their power to do so," said Clark." When the flames
smoke crowded us off the floor, Commissioner Ringer, Chief
( Continued on Page Two.) Eber
