A SOLDIER KILLED AT A HOUSE OF ILL
FAME HIS COMRADES BURN THE HOUSE- THREATENED
LYNCHING OF THE HOMICIDE.- On Thursday night, December
27th, shortly ter 11 o'clock, a party of three or four
soldiers, after drinking some and indulging in a late sup
per at a Blake street restaurant, at Denver City, Cal., proceeded
to a house of ill- fame, kept by a man named
Johnny Kingston and a woman who professed to be his
wife. They demanded admittance, which was refused.
They then pounded upon the door, when a man inside
called out that he would shoot the first man who entered.
They then broke a window, and started to leave, when
the man inside fired through the window and killed one
of the number- William Duffield, of Co. B, 1st Colorado
Cavalry. The other soldiers, who were new recruits, ran.
The man who fired the shot was named Joseph Kittery,
who gave himself up to the authorities At about 1 o'clock
in the morning, the Provost's Sergeant, with two men,
went to the house and took charge of the body until day
light. By 8 o'clock Sunday morning a steady stream of
persons set in to look at the body find out the facts.
About 10 o'clock a large party or rs appeared, but
with no officer in charge of the portion took the
dead body to a private house elose by, while others.
sprinkled turpentine about the chebang, and in a moment
it was ore sheet of flame. As quietly they proceeded
across the street to a barn which had been converted into
a dance- house, and in a moment more it was enveloped in
a blaze. A wagon and a buggy, standing close by, were
pulled away by somebody, but as they belonged to the establishment
, they were speedily run back again. Nothing
was allowed to be taken out of the house, except a trunk
or two belonging to the wretched girls, inmates of the
dwelling, and one feather bed. The bright light and the
heavy clcud of black smoke attracted an immense crowd,
which stood quietly watching the progress of the flames
with evident satisfaction. There was no confusion, no
noise even; everything seemed to be done" decently and
in order" -also with dispatch. The crowd came away as
quietly as it gathered. An ambulance having been provided
, the body was then quietly taken to the barracks at
Camp Weld. Much the largest portion of the crowd re
paired to the guard- house, where the criminal was con
fined and heavily ironed. There was a good deal of muttering
here, and if Lieut. Davidson, in command, had been
a weak man, there would have been a hanging immedi.
ately; but he with his guard kept possession of the door.
Not more than a dozen of the crowd did any talking;
most of them siood listlessly waiting for something to turn
up, to gratify their curiosity. If anything was done they
wanted to see it done. By- the by, however, after the
whisky shops close by had done a good business, the muttering
became louder. A citizen went to the M. E. church
and called out Col. Chivington, who until then was ignorant
of the excitement. He walked through the crowd,
looking rather pale, but good natured, and planting him
self upon the door- step of the guard- house, addressed the
crowd, urging them to moderation, and assuring all that
justice should be done to the murdered man, at any and
every hazard. The speech was listened to attentively,
but several times the Colonel was interrupted by cries of
" Bring him out!"" Hang him!" and it was not much relished
by the more excited ones. It took about ten min
utes for the crowd to get away from the guard- house, and
for an hour little knots of men stood upon the street corners
, angrily discussing the subject, and answering the
questions of new comers who had not previously heard of
the excitement. About one o'clock, however, detachments
of soldiers cleared the streets of straggling soldiers,
and at the latest there seemed to be no evidence of an
organized attempt to carry out the threats that are still
made. If any effort was to be made, it was expected to
take place on Wednesday, 30th December, when he was
to be taken to the court- room for exammation by the
authorities. However, both civil and military were expected
to able to do their duty, HTO
Basinot be
