Nominated for Congress.
PITTSBURG, July 14.- The Cambria county
republican convention to- day nominated Gen.
Jacob M. Campbell for congress.
FIERCE FIGHT WITH A MOB.
A Jailer fries to Protect His Prisoner, but is
Shot to Death and the Prisoner Lynched.
OWENSBORO KY July 14.- At 1:30 o'clock
,.,
this morning an armed mob attacked the
county jail, killed Jaller J. W. Lucas, broke
open the doors of the cell room, and took out
Richard May, a negro, and hanged him to a
tree in the court house yard. Between sixty and
seventy men surrounded the jail and demand
ed the prisoner, who a few days before had
attempted to outrage a daughter of Sid Kelly,
a prominent farmer.
The jailer called to his wife to have his pistols
in readiness, and refused to open the doors
of the jail. The mob then began firing, and
the fire was returned by the jailer and his son
Thomas, aged 16 years. They fired thirteen
shots, the mob firing as many as one hundred.
Jailer Lucas fired from the porch and his son
from the front windows. Two of the mob are
reported to have been killed but they were
quickly carried off. After firing six shots from
the porch the jailer was shot, the ball entering
his right breast near the nipple. He was carried
to his room still refusing to give
up
the keys. His wife took a pistol and tried to
repel the mob, but they crowded upstairs, and
compelled her to give up the cell keys. The
outer door was broken down with a sledge
hammer. The mob then took May from his
cell and hanged him. The jail was badly riddled
with bullets. The jailer carried a lantern
in his hand, and afforded a good target for the
mob. After hanging their victim, the lynchers
departed, leaving several masks about the jail.
It is stated that a number of negroes were in
the mob, ane that a portion of them came from
Indiana, opposite to Owensboro', where the
father of the girl once lived. May was the
third negro hanged by a mob in the court-
house yard and the fourth victim at the gallows
in the county. The action of the mob is
universally condemned, and great indignation
exists among the citizens of Owensboro, Jailer
Lucas given prompt attention, but he died
at 7 o'clock was this morning.
