WEST BURKE.
Double Elopement and Marriage.
The following notice of an affair which
has created considerable excitement in
this village is taken from the Boston
Herald of July 26:
This peaceful village is stirred up over
the sudden marriage of two of its well
known ladies to Ned Woodley and Lew
Strong, both formerly of Harry Meyer's
Dramatic company of New York. The
young men have been here about four
weeks directing an entertainment given
by the band July 18. Rehearsals were
held nightly, and Annie Colby and Annie
Silsby had leading parts. Those young
ladies fell in love with the city actors
and the affair culminated Thursday af
ternoon when Miss Colby called for Miss
Silsby and the two went off together,
leaving word for Mrs. Silsby that they
had gone to make a call. They then hid
in the bushes until they were joined by
the young men, who came along in a
double team, and the eloping pairs drove
to Lyndonville, about eight miles.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Silsby had gone to her
daughter's room, where she found a let
ter saying that Annie had gone away to
get married.
Mr. Silsby and Mr. Colby started after
them toward Lyndonville, telephoning a
deputy sheriff in Lyndonville to stop
the marriage. But 15 minutes before
the deputy sheriff arrived at the parson
age the knot was tied by Rev. J. C. Bod
well, the Congregational pastor at Lyn
donville. The young men had obtained
marriage licenses the night before of the
clerk of Burke, from which it ap-
town pears that Woodley was 22 years old and
Strong 27. Both girls were about 19 years
a recent
graduate and Miss Silsby a school teacher.
couples returned to West
Burke, where they were met by enraged
parents and a crowd of indignant towns
people. Mr. Silsby knocked Mr. Strong
down and took his daughter, now Mrs.
Strong, home with him. Mrs. Woodley
was at first unwilling to leave her husband
, but decided to return to her
old home. later Later a large crowd gath
ered around the place where the young
men were staying and threatened to
lynch them if they did not leave town.
The actors decided to leave, and came as
far as Lyndonville, but returned the next
day to West Burke, leaving later for
unknown, to avoid public indignation parts.
