race has climbed on protest.
chance for Afro- American in the South merce, favorably reported the follow- was reported here in a special dispatch Caucasian, went into the colored sec
Had no voice been raised against injustice, -that is to be more than a half- ing resolution, which had been sub- from St. Petersburg, telling of three tion of the city Sunday night and mis
He felt that there were many Russian youths having outraged and treated
man
| mitted
.
ignorance and lust; the inquisition yet would things precious than gold by Senator Weeks of Massa- then crucified the daughter of a poor woman. Marie Scott, an Afro- American
To defend
more
serve the law, and guillotines decide our last. chusetts: herself, she killed
He intended to marry and Jewish fisherman in Stavrapol, on the
disputes rear was
. him. She arrested
Volga. and put into
" The secretary
a family of commerce is here
and he did
$
The few who dare, must speak and speak ject his children, if any not came care to sub by directed to cause to be prepared in dispatch After outraging. declares, the the young girl, the the Wagoner county jail for safe keep
, to the three
youths ing Tuesday
. she was taken out of
again to right heliish detail an estimate of the probable cost dragged
the wrongs of many. conditions which were general her to a cemetery, where they the jail by a masked mob and hanged
in that section. He felt that they had of sending at least six vessels, now in nailed her to a cross àbove one of to a telephone pole. The mob got into
Ella Wheeler Wilcox. a right to be born in a state where the military or naval service of the the graves. Nails were driven through the jail by strategy. The mob pulled
United States, or otherwise, to the her hands and feet and even through the screaming woman from her cell,
there was no law to degrade them her eyes. The three murderers were her
where they
about
would have
tied rope
a fair
neck and
field and principal
a
port of South America, such arrested, but their friends in the town dragged her some distance through the
then if they failed it would be their vessels to carry suitable samples of released them and they escaped, it is streets before reaching the telephone
own fault. the manufacturers and products of asserted. pole.
and he has the power to In 1885 he packed up his belongings this country, together with a reason
THE end this
APPEAL in the opportunity to put an end to an
and came to the great state of Minne- able number of representatives of busi DR. BOOKER
T. WASHINGTON
justice by a word. unjust and humilating conditions and upon th liquor question. In addition
i sota and or trade organizations, and to STARTLES US.
ness
We have not lost faith in the he has never regretted the to providing a county option law, I
National
Presi" put one over"
Afro
on
American
the Christians.
- Newspaper other means as may by him believe
dent and easy, but adopt such in
we has not been Louisville further
(
His way reducing
believe
News.)
step.
that
the power
he will care
of the brewery
the end that The in politics
advisable, to Louisville and
deemed- Courier curbing
family, giving his be Journal quotes
fully consider the many protests he has reared a
Dr. Washington as saying in a recent the sinister influence of the liquor
HEATHENS children
every advantage he
JEER
could af- our manufacturers
CHRISTIANS
and
.
producers may speech that
PUBLISHDD BY
" the Negro
WEBILY
which have been made and give the should stop traffic by preventing brewery owner
J. Q .ADAMS EDITOR AND PUBLISHER The spectacle of three alleged ford to give them and if they do not be forthwith put in direct contact with fighting segregation and lend his forc- ship of saloons or buildings occupie ..
, word which a Christian Statesman
