Philadelphia. The case of Frederick
Brown, charged with the murder of
one J. F. Durst. a white man, in John
son, S. C., seven years ago and who
immediately fled to this city, comes up
for trial in this city in October on ex
tradition proceedings. Remembering
that the Hon. Cole L. Blease, the gov
gathernor of South Carolina, had publicly
stated that he would lead a mob to
lynch a Negro, G. Edward Dickerson,
Esq sent a telegram to Governor
..
Tener of Pennsylvania to grant no
requisition for the return of Brown
without giving his friends an opportunity
to be heard, for the reason
they feared he would be lynched. that
Notwithstanding that it was conclusively
shown that the accused could
not obtain a fair and impartial trial
and that in all probabilities he would
be lynched, the governor of Pennsylvania
granted the requisition without
demanding a promise of protection as
a condition of his granting the same.
Before the man could be taken away
Lawyer Dickerson had gone by night
to Judge Robert N. Willson and ap
plied for a writ of habeas corpus to
test the proceedings The same was
.
duly granted and a day for a
fixed. hearing
Judge said that he preferred the higher
court to pass on the question, and in
refusing to discharge Brown granted
an appeal and stay of proceedings
pending said appeal. This appeal will
be argued in October, and Brown will
be kept in prison in the meantime.
Two constitutional questions are involved
as the case now stands. The
first, whether a man can be returned
on a charge of murder which is seven
old without being first indicted;
years
the second, whether he cannot demand
guarantee of a fair and impartial
a trial and protection against lynch law,
When the hour was up the petition
had been prepared and signed. and
" Judge Lynch" had again been defeat
ed. At the hearing in the United
States court the assistant attorney
general from South Carolina was there
to argue the case and brought his detectives
with him to take Brown back.
Brown told a pathetic story of having
shot in self defense and how he had
thirty- five iniles during the night
gone on foot to prevent being lynched. The
