MOB BURNS A NEGRO.
LIFE FOR HIS CRIME.
PRESTON PORTER PAYS WITH
Pyre Blazes on the Spot Where His
Girl Died- The Father of
Louise Victim Frost Puts the Match to the
Culprit's Bier.
Preston Porter, Jr., the negro who com
fessed the assault and murder of 11- year
old Louise Frost, was burned to death
at Limon, Colo., in the very place where
the crime was committed.
Tais frightful punishment was meted
out by a mnob of 300 men, who made no
effort to conceal their purpose. No at
tempt was made by officials to stop the
awful proceedings. The sheriff surrendered
his prisoner without offering serious
resistance, after deliberately leading
him to the where it had been publicly
announced place a vigilance committee
would await his coming.
Porter was removed during the night
from the city jail in Denver to the county
jail. He was taken out shortly after
noon by Sheriff Jones, placed in a closed
carriage and driven rapidly to Magnolia,
a small station east of Denver. There
he was delivered to Sheriff Freeman of
Lin oln County, who was on the
bound for Hugo. train
The train bearing the negro, in custody
of Sheriff Freeman and his deputies, arrived
in Limon at 3:45 p. m. The cars
were crowded with newspaper reporters
and people who were curious to see the
negro executed. R. W. Frost, the murdered
girl's father, was one of the passengers
. When the train stopped sixteen
men who had been selected by the vigilance
committee entered the train and
demanded the prisoner from the sheriff.
Their every action was marked by calm
ness and determination. The sheriff
yielded and the train was then allowed to
proceed. At Lake Station, about three
miles from Limon, the party left the train
and began preparations for the deed
vengeance. of
The doomed negro was chained to a
railroad rail that had been set firmly in
the ground, and about this the fuel was
placed. Porter did not seem to realize
the awful punishment he was destined
undergo. to
While every man looked on with bated
breath R. W. Frost, the dead girl's father
, set fire to the mass of combustible material
, and the flames commenced to
crackle. Almost instantly the negro's
trousers caught fire. Even though the
desh must have been scorched, he did not
utter a sound. The flames crept slowly
upward on his clothing; the sparks flew
up in a cloud of pale smoke. Porter turn
ed his head, and a frightful expression
changed his face. With a sudden convulsive
tugging, he stretched his head as far
from the rapidly increasing flames as he
could and uttered a cry of pain:" Oh, my
God, let me go, men! I've got something
more to tell you Please let me go! Oh,
my God! my God.!"
In terrible screeches these words, the
first he had uttered aloud, came from the
negro. Tugging at the chains, he gave
out a succession of awful groans and
screams. Not an oath escaped him, but
he begged and pleaded to be shot. In the
negro's struggles one of the ropes binding
him was broken and he fell partially out.
of the fire. Some wanted to throw him
over into the fire; others tried to dash oil
upon him. Boards were carried and a
large pile made over the prostrate body.
and the terrible
They soon were ignited
heat and lack of air quickly rendered the
victim unconscious, bringing death a
moments later. few
