Attempt to Lynch the Bruegger-
hoff Mexican Rapist at
Georgetown Jail.
The Mob Thwarted by the Coolness
and Courage of the
Officers.
Special Telegram to the Statesman.
GEORGETOWN, February 1.- The Mexican who
was captured Saturday at Dripping Springs, Hays
county, and brought here on Sunday last and
jailed for assaulting Miss Mary Tubbs of Brues-
gerhoff, came near reaching the goal of his crime
last night. An armed mob of about sixty men
came in town last night, and were first seen by
Judge W. M. Key, as they marched by his house
on foot, in regular order on down to the public
square. Henry Rogers, H. C. Purls' bartender,
was surprised by them about 12 o'clock m. His
first intimation of their presence at his establish
ment( where he was by himself) was the ominous
click of revolvers and the refreshing look of about
a dozen six- shooters. They ordered him to come
over and show where the jail guards slept, which
he readily consented to do, and the mob then
moved in solid order toward the jail. Entering
the court house they went rapidly up the stairs and
demanded the keys of Deputy Sheriff Sud
dith, who was guarding the Tom Smith jury, whose
trial is now pending. Suddith asked them what
they wanted. They said they wanted that d- ned
Mexican or tear up h- 1." Suddith laconically told
them they were too late; that they couldn't get him
without a killing, and advised them to go home.
They then went upstairs to where Deputy sheriff
Grumble, Reuben Gentry and W. L. Langford were
sleeping with Tom Smith, and demanded the key
from them. Gentry told them that sheriff Olive had
the keys, and they went to his house to get them.
Mr. Langsford distinguished himself just here by
crying he could kill about four bundred such as
they, and would do it if they tried to get the Mexican
before the law got through with him. The
mob went down stairs and out in the court yard.
They threatened to break down the jail, etc., etc.
In the mean while Tom Smith, who was under
guard at the time, volunteered with Deputy
Sheriff Grumble, and they slipped down and
out to Sheriff Olive's house, but befors
that officers got there the mob had" folded their
tents like the Arab and silently stole away." The
mob meant business, and if properly managed
might have done some ugly work. Our county is,
however, blessed with a sheriff that knows his
business, and is not afraid of anything, and is
backed by a set of brave deputies. No one sympathizes
with the Mexican, who is a human tend,
but if the mob of lynchers had attempted much
work, dead men would have been the fruit.
Miss Tubbs has been brought here and has
recognized the Mexican, whose name is unknown,
as the perpetrator of this damnable deed. We
I have a fine set of jurors for such as him, and Wil
liamson will likely bear gallows print again,
The Methodists started a revival last night
their church with good prospects. at
