R. P. Wallace, the murderer of the Logan
family, of five persons, father, mother and
three children, was taken from jail at Steel-
ville, by a mob and lynched. The guilty
man had been taken to Steelville from Cuba,
Mo., where the horrible crime had been perpetrated
, for fear that he would be summarily
dealt with by the enraged citizens of Cuba.
Friday morning, October 1st, a mob gained
an entrance to the jul, seized Wallace.
dragged him from his cell and strung him
up. He was cut down after being allowed to
hang for a short time in or ler that a confession
might be forced from him. He refused
to own up to the crime and before the crowd
could hang him up again the Sheriff gained
Possession of him and hurried him back to his
call. The crowd was prevailed upon to disperse
and it was supposed that the law would
be allowed to take its course.
Monday night, however, a second and successful
attempt was made to mete out justice
to the murderer. A masked mob of
about one hundred men quickly gathered
around the jail at midnight and demanded
entrance of the jailor This
.
was refused, and the mob battered down the
doors. A delegation of three members was
sent to bring out the prisoner while others
were detaile i to guard the yards leading to
the scene. Wallace was awakened from his
sleep, dragged out to the infuriated mob ani
asked if he had anything to say. He respond
ed by strongly protesting his innocence, still
Edhering to the story that it was the negro
Vaughn who was guilty;
This angered the mob more than ever and
with a shout they produced a rop, cne end
of which they placed around the murderer's
neck the other end being thrown over the
limb of a tree standing near the jail. The
prisoner still protested his innocence and
appealed for mercy, but without avail.
Strong hands grasped the rope and Wallace's
body swung in the air. Another chance was
not given him to confess, and in a few min
utes he was a corpse. The mob then dispers
el and the jail officers cut down and took
possession of the body. Taere is no clue to
the leaders or the participants in the lynch
ing.-
