The President further expressed a hope that
all the offenders might be promptly brought to
justice. On the 16th, I telegraphed you that
there was no excitement
the city at that
time, and that I saw no reason to anticipate
further trouble. I also stated that the action
taken was directed against particular individuals
, and that race or nationality of the parties
did not enter as a factor into the disturbance.
A week has passed since the date of my de-
spatch, and the opinion then entertained as to
the termination of the trouble has proved to
I have been well founded.
The men killed, as I have stated, were con
aned in prison under indictments found in the
,
Criminal District Court for the Parish of Orleans
, the Sheriff has made his return of the
facts to that Court, the Judge thereof has
charged the Grand Jury now in session in regard
to the matter, and the whole subject 18, I
assume, now under investigation by that body.
1 am satisfied that most of the persons killed
were American citizens, but it is probable that
two or three were Italian subjects. I have the
honor to be, very respectfully
FRANCIS, T. NICHOLLS.
[ SPECIAL TO THE EVENING WORLD.1
WASHINGTON, March 24.- Gov. INichols's expected
letter to Secretary Blaine, regarding
the recent lynching of Italians in New Orleans,
has been received, and is as follows:
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT,
STATE OF LOUISIANA,
BATON ROUGE, March 21, 1891.
Hon, James G. Blaine, Secretary of State, Washing
ton, D. C.
SIR: At a late hour on the 15th inst. I re-,
ceived a despatch from you having reference
to the forcible breaking, on the 14th of this
month, of the jail in New Orleans and the
killing of eleven persons confined therein
under indictments found in the Criminal District
Courts for the Parish of Orleans.
You stated to me that it had been represented
to the Fresident, by the Minister of Italy,
accredited to the Government of the United
that
among the killed on that occasion 10
were three or four subjects of the King of
Italy. The telegram disclosed an apprenen
sion on the part of the Minister, evi
Idently shared in by the President, that
the disturbance
was a continuous and swelling
disturbance, which might involve the Italian
subjects in New Orleans. I have reason to be
lieve that the hope expressed by the President,
that I would cooperate with him in maintain
ing the obligations of the United States to
wards Italian subjects who might be within the
perils of excitement, and that further violence
and bloodshed might be prevented, was
upon that belief. based
