unanimously passed the following resolution
:
Whereas, the Republican national
committee meets in two weeks and this
body has not time to formulate immediately
the various inducements that
the citizens of this city will offer for
holding the next Republican national
convention in this city;
Resolved, That M. H. De Young, California's
representative in the Republican
national committee, be authorized
to offer such inducements as in his
judgment will procure the holding of the
next national convention in this city,
and we pledge ourselves to sustain and
carry out all such offers by every means
in our power.
The Democratic national convention
will be considered at a future meeting,
there being no necessity for haste in
that case.
BRITISH OPINION.
Amusing Comment of the London Press
on American Politics.
LONDON, Nov. 4.- Commenting on the
elections in the United States, the Daily
News says:" It is not easy to draw a
moral where the most important con
tests yield diametrically opposite results.
McKinley's victory is the most striking
event for Europe, but may easily be
exaggerated or misunderstood. He was
probably elected, not as a protectionist,
but as a moderate opponent of free sil
."
ver
The Chronicle says:" The election of
Flower cannot be considered a counter
blast to the result in Ohio, because it
was secured by as corrupt means as ever
American political records can show.
All honest people, desirous of decent
government, wanted the election of Fas
sett, but Tammany hall was too
much for the reformers. It is now prob
able we shall hear of McKinley as a
presidential candidate. It is certain the
Republicans will stand on a high tariff
platform. McKinley's election indicates
money
monopoly and vested interests in Amer
."
The Standard says:" The result will
cause a waiting policy on the side of the
Republicans, who may hope in November
, next, to take advantage of some
Democratic mistake or some sudden ac
cession of popularity on the part of the
government, to reverse the decision now
recorded."
The Times thinks it is possible a Democratic
victory in Ohio would not have
pleased all sections of the party, because
it would have foreshadowed a schism at
next year's convention. It is doubtful if
McKinley's achievement is striking
enough to vindicate his policy or to ad
vance his claims to a presidential nomination
.
It may be taken for granted the result
will thrust into the background the
United States government's policy of
bullying Chile.
MURDERED HIS CHILD.
A Topeka Mob Thirsting for an Inhuman
Father's Blood.
TOPEKA, Kan., Nov. 4.- Frank Mc
Lain, a scavenger, is under arrest for the
murder of his nine- months- old son. The
child died yesterday. McLain has three
daughters who told in school yesterday
that their father had taken the baby by
the heels and pounded it against the
door. The story was spread by the
school children, and this morning the
body was taken charge of by the police,
and a post mortem examination proved
beyond doubt that the child had been
treated in a most brutal manner. Its
face was covered with the
scars;
left gashed;
ear was deeply the
body was bruised in several places,
and the left leg was broken. The coroner's
jury decided that death was the
result of wilful, malicious, inhuman
treatment at the hands of McLain. As
soon as the result of the inquest was
generally known, a mob began to collect
around the city jail, clamoring for the
murderer's life. The officers assured the
leaders that McLain was not confined
there. A committee searched the jail
and reported that the prisoner was not
to be found. The mob then made a
search of the courthouse. The sheriff
assured them that he was removed be
beyond their reach. It is believed that
McLain ie secreted in the insane asylum
and the mob may determine to search
that place.
At midnight the mob dispersed, hav
ing concluded it was useless to make
further search for the murderer.
OUTGREW THEIR CAPITAL.
W. R. Strong& Co., Fruit Shippers,
Forced to Assign.
SACRAMENTO, Nov. 4.-W. R. Strong&
company, one of the heaviest fruit ship
ping houses of the coast, with branches
at Fresno, Los Angeles, Riverside and
various eastern cities, today made an assignment
for the benefit of the creditors.
It is believed that there will be no
suspension of its business. The company
has outgrown its capital, and was
unable to meet the sudden demand of
creditors. The company has vast resources
, and Manager Platt says if given
a little time, will be able to meet all
obligations. The company is long estab-
lished and the members are men of the
highest reputation.
Bad for Lexington.
LEXINGTON, Ky., Nov. 4.- The Kentucky
Racing association today made an
assignment for the benefit of its creditors
. Leabilities,$ 62,000; assets,$ 90,
000 to$ 100,000. It is thought that private
parties will buy the course and put
it on a firmer basis.
A Double Lynching.
BASTROP, La., Nov. 4.-W. S. Felton
and J. T. Smith were taken from jail
here by a mob and hanged. The parties
were accused of having murdered J.
Dykus some months ago.
A Surprise Party.
PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 4.- Roger Conner
and Dan Richardson, of the New York
league team, today signed a three years'
contract with the local American Association
club.
The Itata Case Appealed.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 4.- An appeal has
been ordered by the attorney- general
from the decision of the United States
court at Los Angeles, in the Itata case.
The Army of China.
" What kind of an army has China?"
" Their drill and disciple would ap
pear curious to us, but the army has
the best of modern weapons, and, with
European leaders, the army would
prove formidable on account of its numerical
strength. With a population
of 500,000,000 an awful big army could
be equipped. And they would fight,
too. While Chinamen are not patriotic
, as we understand the word, they
do love their land. They reverence it
because it holds the bones of their ancestors
. But I think the danger of a
war is passed."-[ Chicago Tribune.
WE CARRY a full line of the finest jellies
jams, olive oils, mushrooms, peas, and, in fact,
all of the best goods. W. Chamberlain& Co.
213 South Broadway.,
