Knights of Labor and Columbia
Typographical Union at Odds.
Bitter Feeling Engendered by a Refusal
to Indorse the Unemployed
Printers Excursion.
The refusal of District Assembly No. 66,
K. of L., to give an audience to the com.
mittee from the unemployed printers last
evening will probably lead to a bitter fight
between the knights of the District and
Columbia Typographical Union No. 101.
The refusal to admit the printers means
more than the mere withholding from
then financial aid; it leaves them without
the indorsement of the Knights of Labor
of the city, which it given would have
gone a long way in making the printers'
excursion a more decided success ..
This action on the part of District Assembly
No. 66, however, was not taken
hurriedly or without due deliberation, and
it intends to stand by it to the end.
No cause was given officially for the
refusal to aid the printers, either morally
or financially, but the general impression
is that it is the result of the action of
Columbia Union in relation to the difficulty
between the two plasterers' organizations
, which when referred to it some
time ago for arbitration decided against
the Knights of Labor, although the
grievance Committee which had investigated
the case rendered a decision in
their favor. However true this may be,
the causes which induced the assembly
to pursue the course it did were thoroughly
discussed before final action was
taken.
The printers, however, look at the matter
in a very different light from that shown
by the Knights of Labor in the action of
District Assembly No. 66. They claim
they are in no way for what
has occurred in the past and say if the
Knights have any grievance against Columbia
Union they should settle with it and
not with the unemployed printers, and
by so doing interfere with their plans.
This view of the matter is also taken
by several prominent members of the
Kuights of Labor in the city.
A set of resolutions, expressing the sentiment
on government by injunction" were
adopted, and will be forwarded to the
national labor leaders in conference at
St. Louis.
Resolutions of regret were passed on
the receipt of notice of the death of Mr.
Fulton Gantt, who died a few days ago
ir Nebraska.
The delegates from Carpenters' Assembly
1748, Knights of Labor. gave notice of a
special meeting to be held on Monday
next to make final arrangements for their
excursion, which will be given at Marshall
Hall on Labor Day.
A BIG CONTRACT ANNULLED.
Contractor for the Monongahela
Locks Fails to Furnish Bond.
The contract awarded James McCarron,
of Philadelphia, for construction of locks
on the Monongatela River, amounting to
$ 620,000, was annulled by Acting Secretary
Meiklejohn, of the War Department.
Mr McCarron failed to furnish the required
bond within the specified time
and was given more time within which
to do so. The extension expired yester
day.
The department is considering whether
it can award the contract to the next
lowest bidder or must readvertise.
HELD FOR THE GRAND JURY
Charge of Murder Entered Against
Farmer Marshall's Slayer.
Johnson Measured by the Bertillion
System and Committed to Jail
Funeral of His Victim.
Frank Johnson, the self- confessed murderer
of John D. Marshall, the Forestville
marketman, appeared in the police court
yesterday, but in compliance with the
wishes of Detectives Weedon and Lacey
the case was postponed until next Tuesday
. The coroner's inquest will be held
on Monday, and the confession of Johnson
will cause the jury to bring in a verdict
that Marshall's death was caused by the
bullet fired from Johnson's pistol. The
case will be heard in the police court
Tuesday morning and the prisoner held
for the action of the grand jury.
Johnson was taken into the consulting
room at police headquarters several times
yesterday morning and closely questioned.
He was measured according to the
Bertillion system for identifying criminals
. Detective Clerk Gorman and Police
man Phillips taking the measurements.
He was then taken to Merritt's studio on
Pennsylvania avenue and there photographed
for the rogue's gallery.
In the police court Detective Lacey
swore out a warrant charging Johnson
with murder, and without further cere
mon y Judge Kimball committed the
prisoner to jail until Tuesday, and he
was taken there in the Black Maria.
Before being taken to jail Johnson asked
Detective Weedon to communicate with
his mother, Harriet Johnson, who lives
at Tullahoma, Coffee county, Tenn. The
detective wrote the old woman a let
ter, telling her in as mild terms as
possible of her son's crime, his confession
and probable fate.
The funeral of Marshall, the murdered
man, took place at 11 o'clock yesterday
morning in the little chapel at Lee's under
taking establishment, on Pennsylvania
avenue Many of the dead man's friends
and neighbors were present. The inter
ment was at Glenwood Cemetery.
Major Moore issued a general order yesterday
highly commending Patrolmen Ver
million, Curry and Bassford, of the Fourth
precinct, for their keen perception and attention
to duty in capturing Johnson and
letaining him on suspicion The order
also gives credit to Detectives Weedon
and Lacey, who secured the evidence which
led Johnson to confess and which would
probably have convicted him had he re
fused to tell the story.
MAKE SHORT WORK OF BONNER.
Texas Mob Lynches a Negro Who
Confessed to Rape.
Belleville, Tex., Aug. 26.- At 2 o'clock
this morning a mob of 200 men took a
young negro named Bonner from jail, where
he was incarcerated charged with criminal
assault upon Mrs. Zachon, an aged white
woman, near Milheim, and lynched him
in the woods half a mile from town, after
he had confessed the crime. The mob
had first to intimidate the sheriff to
get the keys.
The same negro was suspected of three
other crimes of like nature.
Charged With Criminal Assault.
Ridgeway, Ill., Aug. 26.- Joe Wade, a
brother of Bill Wade, who killed Dr.
Tanner, was arrested this morning for
criminally assaulting the thirteen- year
old daughter of Charles Strong. He is
in jail at Shawneetown. There are
of lynching. threats
