arrest and turned them over to
Courtney Constable James Darby, who conveyed
them to town. Wm. con-
Negroes.
fessed that he had done the killing
, and claims Dr. Courtney had
LOGICAL SEQUEL. slapped him.
LOU
IN JAIL. The weapons used were large,
rough, knotty clubs.
Rumors were rife all day Friday
parish of St.
on Friday that a lynching party was coming
upon learn to Opelousas that night to swing
atrocious, villainous the murderers, and the sheriff to
avoid trouble, sent the prisons to
crime that ever
of a parish, a the Alexandria jail on the evening
train. We are no advocate of
have been
people had aveng the lynch law, but we say openly that
Cheney Merry Makers" was organ- condition
ized, of which Mr. W. E. Lee, of and he returned
this city, is president, and an en- await the coming
tertainment given nightly which Captain Kenison
age, and was
proved to be a howling success.
parish, his father
To those of our city and sur- lian Kenison, a
rounding country who are desirous Young Kenison
of a place at which to spend a few schooling at Prof.
days or weeks in real genuine en- demy, in Opelousas
of 17 did his first
joyment, where the busy world second clerk with
its cares excitement in New
can be forgotten and where all is trade, serving
joy and peace, we would recom- Captain Johnston
mend Bell- Cheney Springs as the book house- keeper of Slaughter in
spot. There you will find splendid in 1860 came
fishing and hunting of squirrel and cured a position
deer, and all within a half a mile store of Rousette
of the springs. In fact, while the Soon after the
the war he enlisted
writer was there a deer was chased Louisiana Cavalry
through the main street where the and was appointed
children were at play, and it took Prescott's company
time for a At the
moments close
only a few
the to
turned to
good shot to supply the entire Hinckley, of
camp with squirrel. A plunge in chased the
the swimming pool before break- placed her in
fast would cause one to feel at where he
peace with the world. We con- years. In 1870
Taylor
ideal and
