Opposes Federal Lynch Law
To the Editor of The Star:
I wonder how many people know that the
proposed antilynching legislation provides for
the payments of large sums of money by the
taxpayers to the heirs of persons lynched.
The result of such legislation would be, in
many cases, to richly reward accessories after
the fact, in some of the most heinous crimes
imaginable.
It is well known that in many rape cases the
criminals have been protected by relatives, who
have fed them while hiding out and who have
lied to the officers of the law as to their knowl
edge of their whereabouts. If such criminals
were captured and lynched the very relatives
who had tried to thwart the law would be en
titled to receive from the county in which the
lynching occurred sums of money ranging
into thousands of dollars. up
If the groups that are pressing for the enact
ment of this legislation were half as much
concerned over the fact that two small girls
recently were dragged from their bicycles in
this area and knifed to death, as they are over
protecting the criminals, there would be much
better feeling between the races, and ours
would be a much safer community in which to
live. If Congress yields to the anti- lynching
proposal, it will have no cause to complain if
crime gets totally out of hand. It already nearly
has reached that point and largely because the
legislative bodies have yielded to the sob
sisters of all races.
If Congress wants to really accomplish some
thing to reduce lynchings, let it enact legislation
making castration mandatory in crimes of
violence against women and taking crimes of
that nature out of the class to which paroles or
pardon could apply. Sex criminals will take a
chance on being hanged but they would not
take the chance of emasculation.
The principal reason that crime has s0
nearly gotten out of hand is because we have
proceeded upon the theory that reformation
of the criminal is the matter of prime importance
. When we are ready to proceed upon
the theory that the law- abiding man is en
titled to as much consideration as the criminal
we will be on the road to curbing crimes of this
nature. But the hour is very, very.
F. G. CAMPBELL late.
