LONDON, Ont .. Dec. 31.- In the village of Mid
dlemiss, a few miles from London, a store
keeper named Grant Silcox was murdered
early last evening for a paltry sum of money.
He and his son had just closed the
shop for the night. when two men wear
masks forced their Ono
ing way in.
terrorized the Ind, nged twelvo years,
into silence, while the other presented a pistol
at the head of the old man, who was reading a
newspaper by the stove, demanding his money
or his life. The family lived above the store, and
were unconscious of the intrusion. Mr. Silcox
went behind the counter to get his money, fol
lowed closely by the robber, who hold the pistol
to his car, hustling him at each step. As
the old man was bending down searching
for the money, one of the robbers took a heavy
weight from the counter and struck him on the
head, knocking him senseless. He then seized
other weights, and while Mr. Silcox was
prostrate, he battered him on the head
until his victim ceased to move. All
this time the lad, paralyzed with horror, was
held by the other ruman. The merchant's
little daughter came down stairs on some er
rand, and was also seized by the masked man
who held her brother, and both were kept silent
by threats of instant death. The murderous
work being finished, the chief robber took from
the till a pocketbook containing$ 200, and the
two escaped. locking the store, door on the
outside. As soon as they were alone the children
began to scream with all their might, and
soon the whole village was excited to frenzy by
the deed. The boy said he recognized one of
the men( A. B. Wrightman) by his voice, and on
this clue Wrightman and another young man
named James Graham were arrested after com
ing from a ball at a neighboring village. So
strong did the case appear against them that
they narrowly escaped lynch law. They were
brought to London jail this morning to await
further examination on Wednesday. The elder
Silcox died a short time after his ill treatment.
On the person of Wrightman was found$ 181
in cash, a pistol, and a mask. A further mark
of identification was an overcoat worn by
Wrightman, and which he had borrowed from
a neighbor named Clarke. The village is wild
with excitement, as the Silcox family wero
much respected, and old man was as harm
less as a child. the
