Quite a left
for Kansas. That it will be declared a Slave State,
there is not much reason to doubt. The Missouri
cut- thronts would be likely to pursue a different
course, were they not sure of being sustained by
the whole power of the general government. As
every intelligent man well knew before election,
Buchanan has no higher ambition that to play the
servile tool to the slave breeders of the South
And nothing will be lacking on his part, which
can possibly tend to insure to Kansas a Slave Con-
stitution. The United States Supreme Court
Judges are equally subservient, and ten times as
corrupt. And in fact, few, it any, prominent
office- holders at the South, but will commit ang
crime deemed necessary to spread and perpetuate
slavery. Taney obtained his present position by
his obsequious obedience to the mandates of Gen.
Jackson. Wilson secured his station by his strict
devotion to party, North and South; and Daniel
was fished up from the southern lagoons by Mr.
Van Buren, who was noted for southern principles.
Our Supreme Courts, State and National, are a
disgrace to the legal profession- to the nation and
the age. In addition to this, robbery, piracy, and
murder, seem to be the most prominent traits in
southern character. To waylay and murder a
northern man, is a plot worthy of a whole congressional
delegation from a sovereign State. Selling
their own offspring, bloodhounding and hanging
negroes. lynching and murdering free State men,
is a sort of pastime with southera ruffians, whenever
the dastardly Vandals can number a score to
one, ard that unarmed. Such a race in possession of
the national government, and backed up by a host
of obsequious, doughfaced demagogues, at the North,
preludes no verry flattering prospect for the free
State men of Kansas. We have long maintained
that nothing short of a division of the States can
relieve the North from a despotism, ten times more
aggressive and a thousand times more intolerable
and disgraceful, than that for which our ancestors
maintained a seven years' war with the most powry
erful nation on earth. If a division can be effected
without war, so much the, but if not, then
let war come, and" let the better Union slide."
