FIVE MEN LYNCHED
FOR PETTY LARCENY
They Had Stolen Barbed Wire,
Harness and Hay Forks
ONE WAS 72 YEARS OLD
${"
Searching Parties Found Halters,
Dishes and Table Linen On the
Premises of the Mob's Victims
- Guards Overcome.
Bieber, Cal., May 31.- Details have been
received here of the lynching of five men
at Lookout, Modore County, early this
morning. The lynched were Calvin Hall,
72 years of age, this three half- bred sons,
Frank, James and Martin, aged respectively
26, 19 and 16, and B. D. Yantiz,
aged 27.
As reported here the men lynched had
been suspected of petty stealing for some
time. Last Sunday they were arrested for
stealing barbed wire, pieces of harness
and some hay forks. A search warrant
was issued and the harness and forks
found in the house of Hall and Yantiz,
who were taken into custody and brought
to Lookout, where they were being held
awaiting an examination and trial. Sun
day and for several days following, other
searches were instituted, and halters,
dishes and table linen which had been
taken from clothes lines were hidden
the premises of the suspects. on
Petty Larceny Charged.
The charge against the elder Hall was
petty larceny for stealing the forks, hence
he was released on his own recognizance.
His trial was to have taken place this
morning. The charges against the others
was burglary and their examination had
been set for June 3. They were held in
custody as they were unable to furnish
bail. Pending their examination they were
well guarded night and day. Calvin Hall
was stopping at the hotel so as to be near
his sons. This morning about 2 o'clock
a mob of from fifty to sixty people suddenly
appeared at the hotel and pointing
their guns at the two officers on guard
commanded them to be silent.
They then secured the five prisoners,
placed ropes around their necks and
dragged them toward the bridge which
crosses the Pitt river. They
compelled
the two guards to accompany them.
Frank Hall, it is reported, made such
strong resistance that the mob hanged
him before it got to the main bridge, un
der a small bridge crossing a deep slough.
The others were taken to the main bridge
and Calvin Hall, the father, was hanged
on the north side and Yantiz and the other
Hall boys were hanged on the south side
of the bridge.
Garrison Reviewed.
Berlin, May 31.- Queen Wilhelmina and
her husband, the Prince of the Nether
lands, witnessed the Emperor's review of
the Berlin garrison today. The Queen
afterwards drove to the royal castle with
the Empress, the Emperor riding at the
head of the First Guards Regiment with
the Prince of the Netherlands on his
right hand.
On returning the procession was met
on Unter den Linden by the chief burgomaster
, the city officials and a band
of twenty- four white- robed maidens. The
burgomaster presented an address to
Queen Wilhelmina and handed her a
bouquet of flowers of the Netherland
colors- red, white and blue.
The Queen replied with a few words
of thanks.
Seige at Corunna.
Corunna, May 31.- A state of slege has
been proclaimed at Corunna and serious
disturbances have occurred. Strikers be
came mutinous and gendarmes were
called to disperse the men. One person
was killed and ten were wounded.
are patrolling the streets. Troops
