WEST VIRGINIA TRAGEDIES.
A Farmer Instantly Kills the Newly Wedded
Husband of His Stepdaughter and Leaves
the Latter for Dend- A Mysterious Mur
der- A Man Shot by Unknown Assas.
sins in His Field and Afterward Beaten to
Death with Stones.
WHEELING, W. VA., May 12.
A terrible tragedy was committed at
Petersburg, Grant County, Friday night,
the particulars of which have just been
received here, and another lynching may
follow, which will be the fourth in this
State within ten days. Lawrence Spiller,
a farmer living back of Petersburg, had a
handsome step- daughter to whom he
played the part of a cruel parent,
keeping her mewed when
up
ever practicable. The county
was full of rumors concerning
their relations to each other, and it be
came a matter of surprise when Edward
Taylor, who worked for Spiller, demand-
ed her hand in marriage. Spiller refused
point blank and warned Taylor he would
kill him if he found him again on the
premises. On Friday night the girl dis
appeared, having eloped with Taylor and
gone to Petersburg.
Spiller armed himself and fol
lowed, the
vowing death to man
if
caught. At Petersburg he
learned that they were married and were
lodging with a man named Williams.
Spiller went to Williams' house and
was told the newly married couple had
retired and were asleep. Forcing his
way to the room, he entered, awaking
Taylor with the noise. The bridegroom
sat up in bed as Spiller entered, and
Spiller levelled a revolver at him. The
bride begged piteously for his life, but
Spiller fired, the bullet entering his heart
and killing him instantly. Spiller then at
tacked the wife, hammering her over the
head with the revolver, and bitterly denouncing
her for deserting him. Leaving
her for dead he rushed from the house,
mounted his horse and fled. Williams
gave the alarm, and an armed posse start
in pursuit. Spiller returned home, where
he was arrested and taken back to jail.
The news comes by messenger, and
when the man left the town the indignation
and excitement were intense. Mrs.
Taylor was then in a dying condition, and
the courier feared mob law in the
of her death. event
