NEGRO LYNCHED
AT LARAMIE
Assaulted Young Woman With a Razor
and In a Few Hours Was
HANGING TO STREET LAMP POLE
Leaders of Mob Injured by Butcher Knife in the
Hands of the Negro as He Was Taken From
Jail. His Victim not Seriously Injured.
1
Another lynching has taken place in
Wyoming and there is another blot
upon the fair name of the state. Mon
day evening at a little after 8 o'clock
the citizens of Laramie, the far famed
" Gem City of the Rockies," and heretofore
a community of peaceable and
law- abiding citizens, overpowered the
officers of the court house and by force
took a colored prisoner from behind the
bars, stringing him up on the nearest
electric light pole The awful tragedy
.
is described in Tuesday's Laramie Re
publican as follows:
Joe Martin, the negro who yesterday
made a vicious attack upon Miss Della
Krause in the kitchen of the county
jail at the court house, and who would
have been charged with assault and
battery by County Attorney Gibson to
day, was taken from his cell in the jail
last night and at 8:10 o'clock was
hanged to an electric light pole at the
corner of Sixth street and Grand avenue
, under the street lamp at that
place, his body being later removed by
order of Justice of the Peace M. N.
Grant, acting as coroner in the absence
from the state of Coroner H. A. Robin-
son. A mob of several hundred men
gathered around the scene and cheered
when the body of the negro was strung
up.
All the afternoon, after the facts of
the fiendish attack had been given to
the public through the Republican
there were angry mutterings and some
open threats of summary vengeance.
At night, after the stores had been
closed and more men were idle at the
close of the working day, the street
corners were filled with men, all with
one subject of conversation and all
with their eyes to the east. At 7
o'clock there had congregated at Second
and Thornburgh streets a consider
able crowd of men. Policemen
ра
trolled the sidewalks and mingled with
the populace, but there was no cessa-
tion of the low talk in the presence of
the officers. It was well along toward
8 o'clock when anything like a concentrated
movement set in toward the
court house.
At that hour fully 500 people had
gathered about the court house square.
Not all who went to that part of the
city entered the yard, many contenting
themselves with standing by the fence,
seemingly with no other motive than to
see whatever was in sight.
Sheriff Cook was in his office when
informed that the mob was gathering.
He left someone in charge and went to
the jail on the basement floor, taking
position in the kitchen, where he could
command the entrance from the east
end of the house. Instead of that, the
first he knew he was looking down the
muzzles of a couple of pistols he after
ward declared were two feet long. A
husky voice said:" Keep quiet, Cook;
no use to make trouble. There are
200 men here." While he was thus at
a great disadvantage a third man took
the keys from his pocket and opened
the doors to the steel cage, which
been closed by Mr. Cook. There was had
no disturbance, no talk- just plain determination
to brook no delay in the
accomplishment of the purpose for
which the crowd had assembled.
Martin's cell is in the northern tier
of cells. The door of the cell was open
when the men entered, Dr. Miller and
Jailer Jones being with Martin at the
time. Martin, when he assaulted the
girl at 1:30 o'clock in the afternoon,
and when his arms were pinioned to his
sides by Mrs. Cook, wife of the sheriff,
had made an attempt to kill himself,
cutting a long, deep gash in his throat.
This was not known to the officers at
the time, so little attention having been
paid to the negro after he had been
rushed into his cell after his attack on
Miss Krause, and it was not until after
supper that the discovery of the at
tempt at self- destruction had been
made. Dr. Miller was summoned and
was in the act of sewing up the wound
when the mob came.
" I had just threaded my needle," that
gentleman" and
said with the aid of
,,
Mr. Jones, was preparing to do what
we could to remedy the trouble, when
men with a larger thread and need
no
for a needle came and took out the patient
. We were turned face to the
wall and held there until the cell was
emptied of its prisoner, when we were
released and the men started upstairs
with Martin.'
As Martin was dragged through the
kitchen he reached over the kitchen
table and grabbed a large butcher knife
hanging there, with which he wounded
two of the leaders of the mob. One
was hurt on the knee, but neither was
seriously injured. The knife was wrested
from the man's hand and he was
dragged up the narrow stairway from
the jail kitchen to the hall of the court
house and out through the back door to
the yard.
Martin was taken through the back
yard of the court house square and out
on to Sixth street, the mob growing in
numbers as the men reached the side
walk with their victim. A few shots
were fired in the court house yard, but
the pistols were aimed into the air and
some of the leaders called out to stop
the shooting.
The crowed surged southward, Mar
tin being dragged between two men,
with those in front pulling and those
behind pushing. All the time he said
not a word; in fact, as far as known,
nothing had been heard from him since
County Attorney Gibson interviewed
him earlier in the afternoon, when he
complained that the beating he had received
had almost killed him.
At the southwest corner of Grand
avenue and Sixth street, where stands
an electric lamp pole, with an incandescent
lamp burning at the end of an arm
reaching two or three feet into the
street, the mob halted and began preparations
to hoist the man up. Someone
climbed the post to the lamp bracket,
when the rope was passed over it and
a hundred willing hands seized the noose
ends and began to draw the negro upward
. The rope had been knotted
around his neck, with the knot on the
left side, but at the first tightning of
the cord the knotFslipped to the back
of the head and Martin hung with his
face to the pole. Before the negro had
been drawn up the man on the pole had
slipped down. An attempt was made
to tie the rope to the post and suspend
the body in midair, but the loop refused
to hold and the body slid down.
There was a shout to haul him up again,
and up he went. This time the knot
was made tighter and the body hung
there until life was extinct.
During the proceedings there were
several cheers and some pistol
but the noise was short lived, there shots be
