What an English Magazine Has to Say
About American Newspapers.
Newspapers of the Eatansville type
till flourish in America, where no esprit
du corps restrains the gentlemen of the
press from indulging their propensity
for unpleasant personalities at the ex-
pense of their fellows. It is so much
easier to be- fool and be- rogue a writer
than to reply to his arguments. Neither
reason, wit nor humor is required to call
an opponent a journeyman grammar-
smasher; to say that" his nasty little
soul is not large enough to fill the socket
of a mosquito's eye," or describe him as
" a beery tatterdemalion,"" agrit tacto-
tum," and epithets of a similar nature.
Charging a rival writer with drunkenness
is a favorite method of abuse. Commenting
on an article in the Virginia
Enterprise, the Nevada Tribune speaks
of been written, no
under the influence of a regret for a
misspent life. It is on temperance. Our
virtuous and abstemious friend goes on
in true teetotal style, and really writes a
most excellent temperance sermon. We
feel happy to know that our esteemed
friend of the Enterprise has determined
to keep others from falling."
A California editor invested in a mule,
and the fact was chronicled under the
heading," Remarkable instance of self-
possession." Said one Milwaukee editor
of another:" He is one of the few jour-
nalists who can put anything in his
mouth without fear of its stealing;" and
when a western editor wrote," We can-
not tell a lie; it was cold yesterday,"
his rival quoted the remark with the
addition," The latter statement is incontrovertible
; but the former?"
Said an Idaho journal:" The weather
has been hot again for the last few days;
the only relief we could get was to lie
down on the Portland Herald and cover
ourselves with the Portland Bulletin-
there is a great coolness between them."
This kind of coolness often brings about
an amusing interchange of incivilities
A Michigan journalist declared in his
paper that a certain editor had seven
toes. The slandered man thereupon relieved
his mind in a" leader," denouncing
the statement as unwarranted, and its
author devoid of truth and a scoundrel
to boot. The offending gentleman replied
that he never wished it to be under-
stood that all the toes were upon one
foot and the disgusted victim of the
;
" sell," appealing to his readers, asked:
" Are these subjects which ought to be
discussed in organs whose duty it is to
public opinion?" Another
mould
worthy, of whom an enemy affirmed that
he had just made the strange discovery
that he could wag his left ear, did not
condescend to impeach the truth of the
statement, but made matters even by
declaring the man who gave it currency
had both bis aural appendages under
such control as to be able to fan himself
with them in hot weather.
An American editor is only too pleased
to catch a brother tripping. When one
journal talked in its leading article of
" buttered thunder," a cotemporary
politely desired to know if that had any
affinity to" greased lightning;" forcing
the explanation that by a typographical
error" muttered thunder" was the
article intended.
When a western editor wrote," We
are living at this moment under a despotism
," his opponent kindly explained:
" Our contemporary means to say he has
lately got married." A newspaper writer
asserts that his ancestors had been in the
habit of living a hundred years; to
which another responds:" That must
have been before the introduction of
capital punishment." The proprietor of
a western journal announced his intention
of spending$ 50 on" a new head"
for it." Don't do it," advised a rival
sheet:" better keep the money and buy
la new bead for the editor," that gentlemarkably
being evidently, in its opinion," a
young man of frugal mental capacity,"
as an Oregon journalist delicately termed
another.
Mr. Gumbs sought to enliven the
ple of Cambria Co., Pa., through the
medium of a lively, spicy, vigorous, fear-
less and entertaining paper called the
Cambria Milky Way. He succeeded in
making things lively- very lively- for
himself. In his first number he called
the editor of an older journal names
which we cannot repeat. He stigmatized
the mayor as a corrupt magistrate, whose
torments from mental remorse were only
surpassed by the physical agony he
endured as the consequence of his depraved
debauchery. He mildly alluded
to the postmaster as an official Dick
Turpin, whose peculations could only be
compared to the terrific robberies committed
in times past by those Spanish
buccaneers whom he so closely resembled
in general character; and finished off
by delicately announcing that a well-
known young lady, in rejecting a certain
young man, had done the wisest thing
possible under the peculiar circumstances
of the case.
In the next issue of the Milky Way its
informed that the editor
were
patrons
had found it impossible to go out to col-
items the
lect news, because the mayor,
editor of the Cambria Mercury, the
Alexander Jones and
postmaster
a
,
,
number of other individuals were sitting
the curbstone and roosting around on
on
the back fence with shot- guns and other
murderous weapons, and looking as if
they were in earnest! That same night
Mr. Gumbs slipped down on a water-
and departed for Kansas more
spout
-
fortunate than his brother out in the far
west, whose organ, in announcing its
" Our editor has
own demise, said:
lately disappeared. According to the
latest information he was last seen under
a tree, slightly raised above certain per
sons who were pulling at a rope" -a way
of stating iynch law that could hurt
feelings, while, as a friendly
nobody's tribute to the departed, it was almost as
touching as the Foxtown Fusilier's:
" We stop the press with pleasure to
announce the decease of our cotemporary,
Mr. Snaggs, the editor of the Foxtown
Flush. He has now gone to another
and better world. Persons who have
the Flush will find the Fusilier a
taken good paper."
