Experience. Experience is the most
eloquent of preachem, but never
large enngregatie has
The remaining four ruffians made their
escape to the lowa side of the river, and
there succeeded in rallying a mob, who
came over in a ferry boat and recaptured
Fisher. This was in the middle of the
afternoon. Fisher was taken some 70
yards from the road, tied with a chain and
rope, and a guard of two men, armed with
knives and pistols, placed over him,
told him that if he hallooed instant death
was his portion. Here he remained till
dark, when he was taken to the second
island above Bloomington, and flogged by
four men until his back, legs and arms,
were cut into welts. He was then pre-
sented with a lie- bill to sign; refusing to
do which, he was again put in a cacoe in
which was a large stone, while two men
occupied another canoe, and both proceeded
down the river. On getting opposite
Burlington, a gun was heard to fire,
and soon after three others. The
becoming alarmed, separated raffians
The Peoria( Illinois) Register relates the following
particulars of a shareful outrage receni
ly perpetrated in Henderson County:
" About the middle of July a young men
named George Fisher, living at the house
of Mr. Anderson, in Henderson county,
was taken out of his bed at night by a
band of ruffians, 11 in number, one ride
of his head close shaved, his body tarreded
and feathered, and then, with bis hende
tied behind him, put into a canoe and set
adrift on the Mississippi, with a threat that
if he came back they would kill him. Af
ter floating a few miles Fisher contrived
to free his hands and reach the shore. He
immediately returned home, and caused
some of the ruffians to be apprehended,
who, after due examination, were bound
over to appear at the next court- two of
them in bonds of$ 1200 each, the others
from 400 to 300 each
The remaining four. ruffians made their
alarmed, separated from Fisher's
canoe, and left him. After floating some
distance he heard a steamboat approaching
, when he made for the shore, paddling
the canoe with his hands, and
in landing two miles below Burlington succeeded.
