A friend of ours, who arrived in the city
yesterday from Arkansas, informs us of
the following startling particulars, show-
noting the summary manner in which that
, more tyrannous than the code of
Draco -- Lynch Law- has in this, as well
as in every other instance where it bas
been appealed to, been carried into effect.
Between the 5th and 10th inst., Phillips
county, in Arkansas, about forty miles be-
low Helens, and the county of Coshoms,
in Mississippi, on the opposite side of the
river, appears to have become the scene of
mob and Lynch law to greater extent
than halafely been recorded by the public
press. A numerous gang of counterfeiters
had their places of rendezvous and
the abodes of their families in the above
named counties, to the great and contin-
ned annoyance of the citizens and the
trading flat boat men on the river. Besides
their encroachment on the
and property of the public in that peace way.
they of late turned their criminal industry
to horse stealing to such an extent as to
rouse the citizens of the whole neighbor.
hood. The latter, headed by Capt Dar-
ney Bradford, formed into a volunteer
company of about 100 well armed men.
commanded and led by said Capt. Brad-
ord, Mr. J. Lunsford, and Spear, from
Arkansas, and Squire Forrer and James
Howarion, from Mississippi, and alter an
active search of several days, succeeded
in capturing 27 men, anong whom we
learned the following names: Hugh Tal
ley, Lewis Hinoston. Andrew McLough.
lin. Willis Pollock, Hugh Cotton. Elliot
and Robert Hunter, the latter, lately from
New York, Joe Merritt and McCormick
The volunteers used the following strats-
gem te seize the scoundrels. They en.
gaged a trading boat at flelens, and hid
about 50 men in the store room; they
sancthen descended the river, landing at eve-
ry place where they expected to fall in
with the counterleitere. These depraved
men came on board to purchase produce,
with the intention of paying for it in counterfeit
money. They were thus taken and
securea in the boat. When the number
had increased to 27 men, they were tied
hand and feet, and, as the report says
drowned in the Mississippi, rest leiand
No. GD, in the presence of two men. Har-
red and Burgess, who, it appears, officia
, or at least took an active part in the
execution of the sentence. We ander
stand that the company is increasing in
number, and intends to proceed to the
mouth of the White river. When our in-
formant met a division of them, they were
abin pursoit of a certain Merriss Wright
When arrived at at
mouth of Arkadene viver, he learned that
some six or seven dead bodies had been
seen foating on the river opposite that
place, and also that some of the counterfeiters
who ascaped had been seen
ing down the river with uncommon speed
in order to evade their
Orleans Bo parentNew
