LETTERS FROM THE PEOPLE.
Lynch Law and Preventive.
To the Editor of The Post.
Brenham, Texas, July 15, 1897.- After
reading the many and varied remedies sug-
ested in The Post regarding lynchings
in Texas I desire to state my own views
and conclusions as to the best course to
Junsue in restraining and mitigating the
evil.
First, the incentive to lynch springs from
an inborn impulse to resent and avenge a
heinous crime. The delays of the law has
nothing to do in prompting the action of
the mob. This is shown in the action of
a mob in Maryland a few days since who
met a brute at the court house door, who
had just been tried and sentenced
to ath
and hanged him to a telegraph pole.
Under that impulse they would snatch
criminal from the gallows and hang
him. Giving the court authority to convene
the court and grand jury at once
to try the criminal, will avail nothing unless
the court can beat the mob, which it
can't do, for while the court is getting to
gether, the mob will have done its work.
The spirit that moves the mob is that they
themselves must be the executioners, because
they are moved by a personal feel-
of revenge. That the action of another
will not appease.
Hence, the late law will prove as futile
as the former. providing for a speedy
trial will not in Its the least satisfy or af-
In anyway secure conviction the of the
fect the mob. Nor will a change of venue
In anyway secure the conviction of the
lynchers.
The other day I asked a man if he favored
lynch law and with great omphasia
,
he said civilized people would permit it
no,
and that it could not be sanctioned by rny
individual. I said suppose your own
daughter were the victim of an assault little by
te mobbed" p. d. q." In this expression
human nature crops out pretty strong.
As long as it is somebody else we feel
Inclined to let the law take its course.
But when the horrid crime
is perpetrated
in our own household with all our soul we
call
upon our neighbors
to help lynch the
brute. This is the feeling of the individual,
and what is a mob but a number of in-
dividuals of like feeling and impulses?
Now, when one of these heinous crimes
has been committed and the perpetrator
been lynched and the lynchers brought to
trial, canvass public sentiment
to
whether they should be punished, and the
average juryman will say," If I were on
the jury in such a case I would not hang
a good man for lynching such a brute."
Verdicts
are generally the echo of pub-
1io sentiment. The jurors are drawn from
the public and who
, are Individually possessed
of
that sentiment. No jury with
change the venue and try in a county ot
excited by the crime. Human nature is
the same the world over, and on proof of
the facts the result of the trial will be
the same.
It is not my purpose to justify lynchings.
nor to condemn them, but to simply state
stubborn facts and conditions that always
have and always will prove
barriers to convictions in such insumountable cases.
Some offenses are, by common consent,
beyond the pale of the law. If the affections
of a man's wife are alienated by an
other and he is slain by the husband, who
ever heard of the slayers conviction? And
yet, in law, it is as much murder as in
the case of lynching. But a short time
since, a judge in Louisiana announced from
the bench in trying such a case that cus-
tom and tradition in the South had given
the right to slay in such cases the force
of rights that is
higher than the constitution and laws.
Now, the same public sentiment that
protects the husband is a powerful factor
in case of assaults upon women.
Weil, to use a common but expressive
phrase, what are we going to do about it
It can not be prevented by legislation, and?
all we can hope to do is to restrain, con-
trol or mitigate the evil, in my opinion,
by legislation on the following lines: Pass
a law clearly defining certain heinous offenses
to be affected by the law. When
one of the defined crimes has been committed
and the perpetrator lynched arrest
and try the lynchers as in other offenses,
except that the only issue tried shall be:
Was the party lynched guilty of the of-
fense charged against him? And on satisfactory
proof that he was that the lyuchers
or
Now, when a mob assembles, there are
always some men more level- headed and
cautious than others. The mob does not
desire to punish an innocent man, which
is the one great danger in lynch law. Now.
if there is a safe course open to the mob
the more thoughtful of them will say,
" Boys, there is a way in which we can
hang the man and he protected ourselves
from punishment. If we hang him on evidence
that would satisfy a court and jury
we will not be punished: but should we
fail to have this evidence on our trial we
will be punished." This will bring them to
act more cautiously, and greatly lessen
the danger of punishing an innocent party.
will beget delay, and every moment's
delay is to the benefit of the victim. In
any event. the law falls to condemn n
man for doing that which the law would
have done, If he had declared that the evidence
was sufficient to convict.
Perhaps it might be implied from what
have that I favor lynch law. I will
this said much as expressive
this much as expressive of my in-
dividual sentiments, that if these helnous
crimes, published so frequently in The
Test, can only be stopped by lynch law.
then I say lynch all such brutes, white or
black.
There crimes are becoming co frequent
and so horridly brutal, that the sentimented
expressed, if not already prevalent. will
soon become so. Let the law elan-
preme, but if it can not protect our wo:
men and little girls from negro brutes, let
people protect them even to lynching.
the T. W. Morriss.
were victim of an assault by right to protect themselves against the
heard of since April last. Her family a brutal? Well, he said in that case midnight assassin?
Soallahly kept her disappearance& secret if one constituted negro& mob that negre would We hear much about the upholding
