New York, Sept. 21.-Dr. Frederick oracy and Confederate
A. Cook, who was a member of Peary's participate in the august occasion
Greenland of sulled will be invited
from here yesterday on the steamer Richmond, Danville, Roanoke
Coleridge for Montevideo, where he will lottesville, Farmville and
join the Gerlach Antartic expeditior. He monument will be erected just
hopes to reach the South pole. The Ger- of the courthouse, on one of
lach expedition, under command of est elevations of the city.
Lieutenant Adrian de Gerlach, left
Birmingham, Ala., Sept. 17.
Antwerp on July 25 on the Belgiac, a
mand for Alabama steel has
whaling ship especially strengthened
that the Birmingham Rolling
and fitted up for the perilous undertak
pany, owners of the initial
ing. The Belgiac is provisioned for two
steel mill, which began operations
years. As far as known Dr. Cook will
July 38, have put their plant
be the only American in the party.
double time, both day and
ing 70 tons per day. The
For Mayor of Baltimore.
hurrying forward work, in
was nominated for mayor on the first their steel mill, whose capacity
doubled, and in a few days
a ballot by the Democratic city conven
able to turn
held
out 140 tons
tion daily
here last night. This is the
of the steel is being used by
second time Mr. Williams has been
dries and boller shops. The
selected as the standard bearer of the
ham Rolling Mill company
Democracy he having been in a defeated municipal for campaign mayor in, 300 men from Pittsburg and
town to their puddling department
1895, along with the entire state and
is now employing 2,000 men,
local ticket. At that time, however, number in their history.
he ran many thousand ballots ahead of
the party vote. Norfolk, Va., Sept. 16.-
fog of smoke from the forest
Uruguay's Rebellion Ended. Dismal Swamp was almost
Baltimore, Sept. 21.- Official advices
this morning. The water
have been received by P. De Murguen about as low as it has ever
do, consul general from Uruguay, rest
the drought in the countles
dent in this city, to the effect that ar ruined the crops and caused
ticles of peace have been signed by the In Norfolk and Princess Anne
agents of the late revolutionary party the situation is serious. The
. and of the government of Uruguay. It
crop has long ago withered
, is also anouneed that the articles have
fall crops are in as bad
received the approval of the Uruguayan farmers say it is the worst
congress and that the rebellion in that
many years, and one that
country is at an end.
cause of incalculable loss.
present uring every precaution
Ohio Miners Resume Work.
vent the fires spreading, and
Bellaire, O., Sept. 21.- All the large
of beating it out, as heretofore
coal mines located on the Baltimore
adepted the western prairie
and Ohio, Cleveland, Lorain and
Wheeling. Peddling banks in Belmont ghting fire, which has
satisfactorily.
county, were started yesterday, operators
paying the 56 cent rate. Two thou Onancook, Va., Sept. 16.-
sand miners returned to work.
reunion drew about
The Planet is now only$ 1.50 per year. ale federate together in Parkaley
