SWIFT JUSTICE:
Meridian Herald.
Judge Mayers held a special term of
the Perry county circuit Courtat Hat
tiesburg Monday to dispose of criminal
cases only. Jesse Perryman, the
negro who was brought to Meridian
to escape the vengence of a mob for
outraging a white woman near Dasta
bucthie, was indicted, tried and convicted
of rape and sentenced to be
hanged on August 5th. Steve Wil
lian's and Joe Manassoe, both negroes,
were cach convicted and sentenced to
two years in the penitentiary for escaping
. Only about eight hours were
consumed in impanneling the juries,
grand and petit, hearing the witnesses
, etc., and sentencing the prisoners
and disposing of the cases.
This is the way the law onght to be
enforced. If the judges in the other
districts in the State will follow the
example of Judge Mayers they will
practically put an end to lynching in
Mississippi. When the courts demonstrate
, as both Judge Mayers and
Judge Huddleston have done, that
the law can and will be enforced and
punishment inflicted swiftly and summarily
, it will be almost impossible to
raise- a mob to lynch a man. The
great mass of the people are law- abiding
and opposed to mob rule and the
principal reason they take the law in
to their own hands when heinous
crimes are committed is the belief
that the criminal will escape punish
ment through the slow machinery of
the courts. When it is shown that
Justice can be dealt out, and dealt out
by the regularly constituted authort
ties, the people will not only respect
the courts, but aid them in enforcing
the law.
Judge Mayers, who called at the
Herald office yesterday to pay his respects
, in speaking of the matter said
that it is his intention to call a special
term of court in his district whenever
an infamous crime like that of Perry
man's is committed. The Judge thinks
that the interests of society, the
State, the county and even the accused
himself require a speedy trial, and he
proposes to see to it that the wheels of
justice do not become rusty in his district
. And he is right. Every man
in the State who respects the law will
applaud action and wish for more
judges just his like Mayers.
