EMPORIA FINALLY
HAS THE LYNCHING
Negro and White Man Strung
Up by the Mob.
SOLDIERS HAD JUST GONE
The Crowd Who Tried to Protect
O'Grady Were Overcome- Some
Doubt as to His Guilt-
Murder Avenged
Richmond, Va., March 24.- The series of
exciting events in Greensville county the
past week culminated today in a double
lynching at Emporia. Both Cotton, the
negro, who, according to his confession,
killed Saunders and Welton, and O'Grady,
the white man, were hanged by a mob,
variously estimated at from 1,500 to 2,000
strong.
This morning the sheriff of the county
discharged from duty the military that
had been sent from this city at his request
, and Major Cutchins, in command of
the troops, notified Governor Tyler, stating
at the same time that he believed if
the prisoners were left unprotected by the
military they would be lynched. The governor
replied as follows:
" The sole responsibility is on the sheriff
. If he orders you to withdraw, you
can do nothing but obey. We have done
everything possible to uphold the law and
prevent mob violence, and are still prepared
to render any aid necessary. Have
recalled train with Captain Cheatwood's
company, and will again dismiss them.
arrange with railroad to bring your
men back."
Accordingly, Major Cutchins entrained
his men and started for Richmond. This
was about 11 o'clock.
Mob Goes to Work
Hardly was the special out of sight when
a mob entered the jail, took Cotton, hanged
him to the limb of a tree and fired several
bullets into his body.
Later, despite the protests of cooler
heads, who claimed that the guilt of the
white man had not been established, another
crowd, composed largely of negroes,
entered the jail, overcame the resistance
of the few that tried to protect O'Grady,
took him out and hanged him also.
The three other prisoners whom Cotton
charged with having committed the Blick
murder and robbery, were discharged by
the judge and left town. At last accounts
the town had resumed its wonted quietude.
Governor Taylor said this evening:
" I feel that I have done all I could in the
matter. The civil authorities stated that
they could handle the mob without military
assistance and when the sheriff ordered
Major Cutchens to depant, there was nothing
left for him to do but go.
" I am greatly distressed at the result,
but I could not keep the soldiers there
without declaring martial law, and I did
not feel that the prevailing conditions warranted
that.
" The law in reference to such matters
will, I presume, be carried out. The men
who took part in the lynching will, or
should be arrested and dealt with acccrd-
ingly. We were given to understand that
protection would be given the prisoners.
The result shows that this confidence was
abused."
Baron De Christiani Released
Paris, March 24.- An order for the release
of Baron de Christiani, who assaulted
President Loubet with a cane at the Au-
teuil races on June 4 of last year, and who
was sentenced on June 13 in the correctional
court at the Palace of Justice to
four years' imprisonment and to pay the
costs of trial, was signed today, and
he will be the liberated tonight.
