SITUATION CONTROL MILITIA
CONDITIONS MORE QUIET IN
SPRINGFIELD, O., LAST NIGHT.
Thirteen Companies of State Troops on
Hand to Put Down Any Recrudescence
of Mob Outrages Agalust the
Negroes- Responsibility for Burning
of Levee.
Springfield, O., March 10.- The race
disturbances which have terrorized the
town for the last three days as the result
of the murder of Patrolman Collis
and the subsequent lynching of the
negro Dixon, who shot Collis, is held
well in check by the thirteen companies
of state militia, and the authorities
were of the opinion to- night that no
more troops will be needed to control
the situtaion. Both Chief of Police
O'Brien and Sheriff Routzahn believe,
however, that it would be a mistake to
materially decrease the number of
troops now on hand. There are unmis-
takable signs of ugly feeling on the
part of the men and boys who have
composed the mobs of the last three
days and the authorities realize that
the shooting of either a white man or
negro or even a street fight between
men of opposite races would be sufficient
to start the mob again on a killing
and burning expedition. The burning
of a portion of the levee and the
vacating of several other negro saloons
and lodging houses by their proprietors,
has only partially satisfied the mob,
which was thwarted by the military in
its attempt to burn the" Flickers Nest,"
a row of buildings formerly occupied by
about fifty families, but now completely
deserted. This evening, the police arrested
a negro claiming Cincinnati as
his home and giving Y. W. Smith as
his name. He was accompanied by several
strange negroes and wherever they
could gain an audience of one or more
negroes on the street, they read a highly
inflammatory typewritten paper urging
the negroes to avenge the lynching
of Dixon and to apply the torch to the
white business and residence districts
in retaliation for the burning of the negro
quarters on the levee. The police,
however, do not fear much or any trouble
from the native negroes, as this
portion of the colored population has
been prompt all day, to keep the police
in touch wtih any signs of an uprising
on the part of strange
negroes
( Continued on Third Page..)
