darkness of the night. Then the pulse had
to boat its last throb, and the cold hand of
death steal away the last expiring breath.
Fortunately a faithful negro servant of
Mr. Carey had heard of the intended murder
, and communicated the design to his
master, in sufficient time to give him a
chance of escape. He managed to do this
and when sufficiently out of the reach of
Yoakum made the facts public to the citizens
The people no sooner heard of it
they were satisfied of its truth; for
than the good character of Mr. C. is proverbial.ed
From the Natchitoches Herald.
TEXAS- MURDER- LYNCH LAW- LAST
OF THE YOAKUM GANG.
We have been put in possession of the
facts in relation to this affair, which is one
The
the last Texas Tragedies.
among
citizens of Jefferson County, it appears,
have long suffered from their outrages,
and from their numbers and recklessness
of character, it seemed impossible to arrest
their injuries by the hand of civil power.
Cattle have been stolen, robberies committed
, and citizens insulted and murdered;
but still, whenever they were arrested on
the charge, the gang came forward with
perjured oaths, and they were acquitted.-
Yoakum' was hardened into the most inveterate
degree of erime, and seemed but
to reap enjoyment by pursuing the most
fiendish acts of roberry and murder. It is
a most singular instance of the effects of
habit. He was a rich and affluent planter,
and lived in a sumptuous and most magni-
ficient manner- kept a splendid equipage
-owned over a hundred negroes, and
large tracts of land- had constantly about
a hundred breeding mares; made a yearly
sale of fifteen hundred cattle, and had a
large revenue coming in from other sources
. There is no doubt but that he was
the richest man in Texas. Yet, with all
this wealth, his disposition to plunder knew
bounds.
no
The cause of his death arose from an
abortive attempt to murder Mr. Carey, of
Houston County. Mr. C. is a highly respectable
and wealthy citizen of the town
of Houston, and was, at the time, staying
at the residence of Yoakum. He was suspected
of having a large sum of money
with him, and Yoakum determined that he
The
should be murdered while in bed.
plan was properly matured during the day,
every thing placed in readiness for its
commission and. Nothing remained but the
