ed for the cure
and misty wings there is scarcely enough of it
home
;
tations are
and on the
trees
return
almost, and anything at a word that these Battery warm, and the mornings piers are to as stir hot the and dusty as in of of malaria the accuracy, and
stands ineanwhile the dog- days. The Park and the Squares are origin of cholera
straggler and re- fine play- grounds for hundreds of rejoicing lations of London
are never allowed children, and in watching their unrestrained minute investigations
almost all towns hav- sports we felt regret that the Fountains could the circumstances
The eggs of all not have the same liberty to play. Two or ease-
the ducks are salt- three hours a day is not enough for those
Let every
flesh also, for sea blithe water- spirits. We believe, however, the
of fish are salt- Inspector has taken them in training for the be quickly removed
eel is very fine. purpose Broadway of forming is now a battalion in its glory of. street Mustachoed- cleaners, itations cess- pools such,
blubber even is
frogs, toads, shell Young gentlemen twirl slender canes with lem- nuisances We do not
, snails, gelatin- on- gloved hands, as they parade the shady side are ever connected
blue and
of an afternoon Ladies in pink and,
,
grains
.
various
bread, not un- violet, and pearl- green, and couleur de rose there habitations can be. no
cooked on the side glide up and down with lighter steps than wont." Let all
generally by steam, and fresher complexions. Beggars on the side-
divers sorts, among walk loll back against the walls and fire- plugs frequently Let the cleansed
with the far niente air of Neapolitan lazzaroni.
which for to European the would introduc-, be as Water A few- mortals carts go, by doomed, sprinkling to endless down hurry the, take dust a. tions moisture" Let be all drained of every
discoverable only chance to smile as they look out of omnibus
pork disagreeable fat into these pe- gone windows: as we. One are, sees reader their- for faces our and glimpse they are of and impede" Let without every ventilation
is universal May is only out of the hack window of editorial mission of fresh
are ginseng, a kind life.-N. Y. Tribune. about noon, when
formerly a royal mo- to be dry.
The True Remedy.
grown on the em Let dry
, but has latterly The Augusta( Ga.,) Chronicle, foremost sing. in place
, and some part of among the journals of the South in all that per-" Let the use
' nests of the sea tains to enterprise and improvement, makes especially under
substance, in appear some intelligent observations on Mr. CLAY's the body is heated
a gum. reckoned letter concerning emancipation and colonization." Let a poor
when very high very prices clear.. It" says The: Caucasian race outnumbers the African in" cooking Let the wearing or for
United States this time to one
each sell the at as six
ounces,. avoided
in, ing be
,.
brought from the No more negroes are coming into the country Let a flannel
Archipelago, as like- from abroad, whilst Europe is sending over a the belly.
sea slugs, brown- million of white laborers, to reside permanent- N. B. This
seven inches long. ly and multiply rapidly in the American Union,
, as are the exotic every four years. The ceaseless progress of checking the
, fins, and tails of this ever- augmenting disparity in the number common during
will eat every of the two races, and of two distinct classes of disease has, in
Lieut. Forbes's five laborers, must eventuate in changing the chai- to commence
acter, complexion, habits, customs, and laws of and in this stage
society. It cannot remain stationary: and it however, be
Virginia. is the part of sound conservative statesman- quently unattended
of deep regret to ship to foresee coming events, and shape them fatal delay has
Virginia sincere- so as to advance the best interests of the com- that cholera must
are every year munity. Although we do not believe that the the early stage
behine them, to take convention to form a new constitution in Ken- ping or cramp
West, they entirely tucky will take any action in favor of emanci- ease Let can personal be most
, as fertile, as pation, immediate or remote, nevertheless the
Let every
Providence with time will come when property in slaves will
and physical
to the comfort cease to be desirable in that State."
operation of the laws of social let exposure to
that the sun ever The gradual avoided.
almost unnoticed. and industrial economy, in every civilized com-
Let crowding
region of country munity. carries with it a sanative for the ills.
a region abound whatever they may be, of the system -- ills apartments be
Let sleeping
quality, the primeval which might become aggravated and inflamma-
Let fires be
evidence by its tory if rudely and arbitrarily dealt with. Great
fertile nature of the changes in the body social or politic cannot take ing or adjoining
never yet known place suddenly save by convulsions, which period of most
region capable of may peril the life itself. A chronic disease, under exposure
Let all bedding
to its hundreds of fixed in the system. implying a gradual growth.
count its tens: a requires to be removed by slow and gradual during winter
of which are be- means, and by means in harmony with the vi- summer to the
lately, they were tal principle. Rather, we may say, it is the ac-
pleasant valleys, tion of the vital principle itself, through subor-
mountains, the dinate means, that finally throws off the morbid The power of
hot breath of fever elements from the system.- Balt. American. wheat or pasture
sparkling of whose in- by the admixture
coolness through Rascality in Maine. salt. In the
ground. are as those Rev. Daniel L. Quimby, of Lisbon, who for al Agricultural
of Syria. the last fifteen years has been a circuit preacher, that fifty- four
homes beyond the and who, almost to the moment of his departure produced larger
magnificent years been country entire-, an confidence had been above and respect suspicion of a. large and has circle enjoyed of friends the Belgian manure and carrots
obvious relatives has eloped For year two half the cost
perfectly
or.
and a
used top- dressing
.
Me, as
.
Lisbon
,
be raised in great past, Quimby has been residing at,
: but such por- his native town, where he owns a small pre- spread, as that
consumed, are left to perty, and where his wife and children, three ammonia, which
The most valua- in number, still remain. Two weeks ago last the manure. To
that
Redfield injurious as
which Monday he left his house to to,
Dominion that go.
-
rest in resuscita- Wayne.& c. to be absent to the next Saturday, pation of the
has been left to It seems he went to Wayne, the residence of chombe farm,
of the fact that Mrs. Lawrence, his paramour, who has left be- nothing but soot
the two parts can hind her 3 children, the youngest of whom is which he grows
flourish. This state a year and a half old. Not finding her in reali of twenty- five
rapidly undergoing a ness, he remained in that vicinity through the
Richmond
distant when the week, and on the Sabbath enlightened the
tight the bonds of good people of that town with instructions upon We learn that
in very deed, what mortality, virtue and religion. On the followed to the Trustees
politically, one and the ing day, he took Mrs. Lawrence to bring her to adelphia, as
all striving to ad- Lewistown, where she has relatives residing; cine in place of
they came there, tarried over night, and since Dr. T. is a
condition, and our fu- that time they have neither been seen nor heard years a Professor
great pleasure to of.-N. Y. Express. phia: stands high
Western Virginia is his talents and
Death.
Singular
to be the true di- At a Cotton Press in Savannah some negroes not, be a valuable
to give the to the society of
is, and, which is were bantering each other upon their respective
she can be.- Rich- powers of butting. Finally one of them boasted
that he could butt with his head against a
square bale of cotton with sufficient force to On Saturday
marked turn it over. Though warned, he made the quitted upon
TRUNK,, va experiment, and ran with his head against the Mrs. Charlotte
the owner can bale from a distance of twenty feet. He suc- and sent on to
subscriber, and paving ceeded, but the result was fatal. His neck on two further
name J. L.
JOS. NEVETT. broke, and he died instantly. of
