In Auburn, Placer eounty, Jan. 19, Henry F. Wiggins, It is surprising that there are no eapitalists at home
News from the Interior. er Sea Bird, not yet arrived; but the more probable
MARYSVILLE. cause is to be found in the fact that the Californians of Unity, Waldo county, Me., of chronic diarrho that are willing to embark in an enterprise that will af-
In Sacramento, Jan. 25, Milo Bennett, aged 56 years,
Herald, writing awake, and could not be induced to ford a greater profit, and inünitely
A correspondent of the Marysville were too wide formerly from Iowa. more credit, than ang
a few weeks since from Lyon's Ranch, gave an ac risk their money on the result of the race. They At Rich Gulch, Feather river, Jan. 15, Augustus Hoff- line of steamers yet established on this side of the conti
count of an affray with the Indians, which resulted could not understand why the horse should be brought man, a native of Germany, aged about 45 years. tinent. And if our government would expend a smali
in the death of eighteen or twenty, writes again un- 700 miles merely for the sake of running in Los Ange- At Stony Point, Feather river, Dec. 24, Wm. D. Aus- portion of the gum that they are fooling away in the Ja
der date of 15th inst: -- los, and very naturally concluded that the match was tin, abo ut 60 years of age. pan expedition, in an appropriation to such a line, they
would do much more good, by increasing our influence in
Yesterday evening, information was received that made for a" bite," they, the Californians, to be the In San Francisco, Jan. 37th, after a short illness, Wm.
Reed, late of Scotland, aged 49 years. the South Pacific, than by bullying a set of long tailed
Frenchtown, a mining settle- victims
chief.
the old was at
heathens.
Drowned, on the 3d of January, at Big Bar, Middle Fork
ment across the West Branch, four or five miles dis- The shock of an earthquake was felt at Santa Bar- Business is about as lively as you could expect in a
of the American river, Henry C. Williams, of Jersey City.
upon the whites 29th ult. population
tant, openly threatening vengeance bara on the In Sacramento, Jan. 13th, of dysentery, C. B. Smith, of Spanish town, where three fourths of the loaf
for the severe castigation they had received. A par- A commission of justice has been in session for a Gloucester, Mass., aged 24 years. for a living. Flour still hold its high price, at$ 50 per
ty of eight was immediately formed, and at 6 o'clock week or more, taking testimony in the contested In San Francisco, on the 15th Jan., Capt. Edwin B. Jen 200 pounds. There is little speculative movement, how-
set out from Hasty's Ranch, crossed the river, arrest election савев. kins, after a lingering illness. ever, in the article, and very little being shipped, owing
ed and brought back the old chief, arriving before 11 Dr. Allemani, the Bishop of California, arrived in At Long Bar, Yuba county, on the 14th Jan., Mr. Ham- to the high rate of freights. A rise of a dollar per ton
o'clock. After binding him, a strong guard was Santa Barbara on the 27th ult. We learn that from mond Palmer, aged 22 years, of Essex county, N. Y. on freight here frightens speculators off the track at
In Marysville, of cholera, on Tuesday, the 11th Jan., once, although they may clear 200 per cent by their ship
placed over him to prevent the possibility of his es Santa Barbara he will proceed to Los Angeles. ment.
Mr. W. H. Dills, aged 23, late of Cayuga county, N. Y.
cape, until this morning, when he was removed about On the 7th Jan., while attempting to cross one of the Freights are To California$ 20; United States, with
a mile, to Lyon's Ranch, and after a short delibera- Hanging of a Negro for Burglary. swollen creeks in the vicinity of Auburn, Henry V. D. copper ores,$ 17 50, with saltpetre,$ 15, guano,$ 18; to
tion, it was unanimously resolved to hang him at LYNCH LAW AGAIN IN VOGUE- EXHCUTION OF Wisch, of New York. Europe £ 3 108 .; and$ 23 to Australia. Good vessels are
once. Arrangements were soon made, and the re- THE NEGRO JAMES TAYLOR, FOR BURGLARY AND At Shaw's Flat, Oct. 1st., of dysentery, Warren D. very scarce, and command almost any rate of freight.
doubtable old brave, who has figured so conspicuous- ROBBERY.- MORMON Butler, from Cobb county, Ga. Two or three small clippers, say 500 tons each, would
ISLAND, Jan. 26, 1853.- We
ly in every Indian affray of importance in this re- take the following from the State Journal: -Our In Sacramento, on the 17th Jan., an infant child of F. soon make a fortune between here and California."
Frances The American ship Far- West, Capt. Briard, struck&
gion, since and Gillespie.
introduction
F.
the of the whites, after calm- ordinarily quiet town was thrown into excitement reef of rocks at the entrance of the harbor, and will be
In San Francisco, on Tuesday, Jan. 18, Clara Josefa, in-
surveying the preparations made for his execu-
ly this afternoon, by reason of the hanging of a negro fant daughter of Mr. and Mrs. G. Chapman. obliged to discharge her cargo and undergo repairs. She
