Murder and Lynch Law
IN CAROLINE COUNTY.
On the 29th of September Wm. II. Butler
was killed near Burrsville in Caroline county
by of which the Denton
a negro; Journal gives
the following account:-
According to the evidence elicited before
the jury of inquest, it appears that Dave
Thomas, free negro, living in the neighborhood
, went to the house of Mr. Wm. I. Butler
, somewhere about 8 o'clock, on the even
above named, and called for Mr. Butler,
who had retired, and was asleep at the time.
Thomas called repeatedly, until Mr. B. got
up and went to the door, where some converskillfully
sation took place between them, after which
they proceeded together to the road gate, a
short distance from the house; and having
passed through the gate into the public road,
Thomas dealt Mr. Butler a mortal blow on
the head with a heavy musket, which felled
him insensible to the ground, and which produced
death in about three hours. Mrs. Butler
, who was standing in the door. heard the
blow, and the struggles of her husband, and
immediately ran for some of the neighbors-
Thomas in the meantime making off. Two
ghastly wounds were inflicted by the blow,
supposed to have been done with the lock of
the gun.) one just below the left eye near the
,
nose, which extended through into the nostril
, the other about one and a half inch above
the left eye, where the skull was horribly
crushed. and the membrane of the brain
sightly lacerated.
Things wont to the house of Mr. William
Breeding on Thursday morning, when Mr. B.
and others secured him and brought him to
town, and he is now safely lodged in jail.
He confesses that he struck Mr. Butler, but
says he did not mean to strike so hard. His
punishment will doubtless be adequate to the
crime he has committed."
The Court sat in Caroline county last
week and the negro was tried and found guil-
ty. The Baltimore Sun of Wednesday last
gives the following account of after proceedings
:
THE EXCITEMENT AT DENTON- Dave Thom-
as, the Murderer, Hung hy a Mob.- We stated
yesterday that Dave Thomas, the negro
who murdered Mr. Wm. H. Butler, in Caro-
line county, Md., on the 27th ult., had been
tried at Denton, and convicted of murder in
the second degree," and that the verdict had
caused so much dissatisfaction as to induce
many citizens to threaten a resort to lynch
law on Thursday last, the day on which the
prisoner was fovnd guilty. The prompt in
taf rence of the law, however, prevented the
threat from being carried into execution at
the time.- But, it appears, the vengeance of
the populace was only temporarily stayed.
We learn from a letter of a correspondent we
received yesterday, that a large and excited
etowd assembled about twelve o'clock on
Saturday night, proceeded to the jail, broke
it open, took the prisoner out and" hung him
from a plank which they nailed to a window
the outside, in the second story of the jailed
building. He was suspended until life was
extinct, when he was cut down and his body
conveyed back into the jail. Nor did the
mob stop here. They then released and set
at liberty two other prisoners, one of whom
had been sentenced to the penitentiary.
We learn from another source that the sheriff
was siezed and tied by the mob before they
proceeded to their murderous work. This is
ono of the most daring outrages ever
trated in Maryland. perpe-
