at the Court House on the 8th inst., pursuant
to previous notice, for the purpose of paying
respect to the memory and virtues of the lab
WILLIAM CRANCH,
CHR. NEALE, esq., was called to the Chair
and W. C. YEATON appointed Secretary.
Francis L. Smith, esq., then arose, and after
announcing the death of the Hon. Wil
liam Cranch in a suitable and feeling manner
, moved the appointment of a Committee
resolutions
to prepare, whereupon the chair
appointed Messrs. F. L. Smith, Charles E.
Stuart, and B. H. Berry, said committee,
who returned the following preamble and
resolutions, which were concurred in and
adopted by the meeting:
The members of the Alexandria Bar and
officers of the Courts, being informed of the
death of the Hon. WILLIAM CRANCH, have
convened to perform the grateful, though
, mournful duty of doing honor to his memory
. Worn out by age, and worn down in the
faithful discharge of duty, this wise and good
man, has gone to render an account of his
stewardship. Presiding for many years in
the courts of Alexandria, and being for a
long period, a resident of our city, ample opportunity
was afforded for observing his pub-
Vallie and private course. No man we believe
ever wore the robes of office, or ministered
at the altars of justice, of purer or more
spotless life. That he was an able, learned,
and upright Judge- having always truth for
his object, and reason for his guide -- none
who knew him, will for a moment doubt.-
His profession he regarded as a noble science
worthy of the worthiest, and contributed to
its exaltation, both by his precept and example
. But besides these were certain points
in his character, of which we would particu-
, larly speak. His calm, deliberate, untiring
patience that quality so vitally essential in
a Judge, to the faithful discharge of his of
, ficial duties; his close and respectful attention
to argument, to which he listened, for
, instruction, not merely to combat -- his careful
examination of authorities cited, and his
thorough investigation of every case which
was brought before him. These, all these,
useful and valuable qualities, he possessed
in an eminent degree. He fully realized the
sentiment of a learned jurist who said," that
so should every Judge bear himself, that the
most unsuccessful suitor should leave the
court room impressed with the belief that
,
though he had lost his cause, it had received
a full, fair, and impartial hearing." One of
the rules, established by Sir Matthew Hale,
for his guidance on the bench, seemned to have
been specially adopted and acted on by Judge
Cranch" That I never engage myself in
beginning of a cause, but reserve myself, un- the
