Catharine B. Creamer, who had been an in- to the Union
mate of the family of Mr. Fridley, Mrs. Day's The Herald, published at New
father, since last November. She delivered her souri, says that the shock of
possessed and satisfac- parts of Missouri on the 2d
testimony in a very self- some
tinued longer and severe
manner was more
.
The Convention regular abstract which we of the publish proceedings daily, will of sembling felt for several thunder years preceded. A rumbling and
keep our readers advised of the doings of that shock. Near West Lake the earth
several places, and also on the
body Of the SAYINGS it is impossible to attempt
.
Connelly, eleven miles from the
furnish even a sketch- for these, the curious
inquirer will have to refer to the" supplement" farm of Silas Beavers, six miles
now is, and the" register" that will be opened and threw sand and water
Most of the" amendments," referred to in the of forty or fifty feet. The earthed
before since 1812.
journal, are accompanied by running debates,
A Court of Inquiry, consisting
which would continue, apparently, ad infinitum,
the inexorable previous question were not Mayo and Commanders Buchanan
called in to arrest them. There is now a strong gold, convened on Monday, at the
party in the Convention favorable to action and Washington, at the request
adjournment, and confident hopes continue to Rhodes, of the Navy, to investigate
entertained that the scene will close on the of inebriety preferred against him
prevented his promotion in the
of August.
ter Jones acts as Judge Advocate
The Senate of the United States has, of late S. Cox as counsel for Rhodes.
assumed a far different attitude from that
years, nesses were examined and the
,
which it presented in the earlier years of the continue for some days.
republic; although the body itself remains as The January number of the
originally designed, and without change to de la Societe de Geographie" contains
duties and powers. We are not sorry as that of eleven pages on the United
