THE RECENT MASSACRE IN KENTUCKY.- FURTHER
PARTICULARS. The telegraph announced briefly, a
few days ago, that a family of four persons of the
name of Joyce, living some miles from Louisville,
were all brutally murdered, and their dwelling, with
their bodies, consumed by fire. The following additional
particulars we gather from the Louisville Courier
:
The house was the property of William Joyce, a
young man, who was fortunately away from home
on the night of the murder to attend a wedding. He
had, however, left a brother, Richard Joyce, aged 19,
at the house, to take care of his property and the
family during his absence. The inmates of the
house were Mrs. Lydia Joyce, her son Richard
Joyce, a young man of 19, Mrs. Welsh, her daughter
, a widow, and the latter's little daughter, a child
of three years. The oldest son, William Joyce, the
owner of the house, as before stated, was away from
home. The house was burnt to the ground late
Thursday night, and the next morning an investigation
led to the horrible belief that the entire house-
eold had been murdered. The charred remains of
the two women were found near the fire place, while
those of the young man were lying in the place supposed
to have been occupied by the bed.
Mr. Wm. Joyce returned to his home to find it a
mass of smouldering ruins, and, with the assistance
of the neighbors, instituted a vigorous investigation
of the premises, and the cause of the disaster. Suspicion
at once fastened upon several of the negroes
in the vicini.y, and, on searching the premises of
Mr. Pendleton, a watch, coat, pants, and other
things, the property of Mr. Joyce, were found
secreted under the house. Bill, a save of M .. Pen-
dleton, was then arrested, and confessed that he and
three others murdered the family, plundered and
then fired the house. At this revelation the greatest
excitement prevailed, and lynch law was about
to be enforced at once, but calmer judgment overruled
the action of the more hasty, and the three
other negroes implicated were caught and tied to
stakes to make them confess, which they finally did,
and were committed to jail. They stated that they
went to the house about midnight, broke open the
door, and encountered Richard Joyce, the brother
of William. He was brained with a club in thepre-
sence of his mother and sister. The aged mother
seized a pair of tongs to rush to the defence of her
son, but on the instant was attacked by the negroes,
one of whom knocked her senseless with a club.
The daughter, Mrs. Welch, attempted to escape out
of a window, but was caught by the feet, dragged
back, and then beaten to death. The infuriated
ruffians sacked the house, took the little girl of
Mrs. Welch threw it upon the bed, set fire to it
and fled, the, child being actually burnt alive.
