BUSY STILL MOB IS
( Continued from First Page.)
of a street railway conductor. While the
woman slept alone in her home on a populous
residence street, awaiting the return
of her husband, the man broke into the
house, dragged her into the rear yard and
assaulted her.
Before noon George Richardson, a young
negro, was arrested by the sheriff's force,
charged with the crime. The victim per
tially identified the prisoner. Crowds
quickly gathered about the jall, but Sheriff
Werner's force and the police were able to
order until nightfall without
preserve
difficulty.
Arrested Negro Spirited Away.
Shortly after 10 o'clock a successful ruse
was worked by the authorities and Rich
ardson was spirited away to safety. With
the assembled crowds held at bay by the
officers, a false run by the fire department
temporarily drew the attention of the
crowd, during time the prisoner was
hurried down an which adjoining alley and at the
first corner was pushed into an automobile
owned by Harry T. Loper, a restaurant
keeper, who had been sworn in as a deputy
sheriff.
Before the crowd realized what had happened
Richardson was being rushed to a
point north of the city, where a Chicago
& Alton train was stopped and he was put
aboard with a heavy guard and conveyed
to Bloomington and later was taken to
Peoria.
Along with Richardson was taken Joe
James, another negro prisoner in the county
jall, who is accused of killing Clergy Bal
lard, a state mine inspector, after attempting
an assault upon Ballard's daughter.
Ballard went to his daughter's rescue
and was stabbed to death.
Mob Gathers at Jail.
Immediately after the darkness had gathered
crowds assembled in the vicinity of
the county jail. The mood of the masses
was ugly and appeals by Sheriff Werner
were without effect. The sheriff offered to
let a committee from the crowd search the
jail, assuring them that both negroes were
.
gone" We will all go through," shouted one in
the crowd and the cry was taken up by
hundreds.
Then some one in the crowd mentioned
that Harry Loper, the restaurant man, had
furnished the automobile in which the
escape the prisoners had been effected.
" On to of Loper's!" he shouted, and by this
time the maddened mob was ready for
erything.
A rush was made upon Loper's restaurant
, five blocks away. The proprietor was
warned, but, failing to appreciate the
seriousness of the situation, did not at
tempt to escape until the mob was upon
the place.
He was pushed by employes of the place,
together with his wife, into a basement
room, in temporary safety.
Loper's Restaurant Demolished.
Short work was made of the restaurant.
The automobile in which the rescue had
been effected had been left in front of the
place. It was quickly turned upside down
and fire was set to the machine.
While the machine blazed frenzied hundreds
poured into the cafe, tore fixtures
and decorations from their places and piled
them upon the blaze. Even the sideboards
and kitchen were stripped, and all the
tableware and dishes piled upon the blaze.
The fire department, which had been
called out half a dozen times in efforts
to disperse the crowds, again made a run
to the restaurant, but powerless.
Every line of hose that was was stretched was
cut before a stream of water could be
forced into it. The restaurant was stripped
clean by the mob which worked without
hindrance until its work was nearly completed
.
The local companies of militia, consisting
of a company of infantry a troop of cavalry
and a gatling gun section,, which had
been ordered out by Governor Deneen early
in the afternoon, was busy with the situation
in the vicinity of the jail and the local
authorities had no men to spare at the
scene of the Loper rioting. Finally, in a
desperate effort to restore order, the cavalry
troop was dispatched to the restaurant.
Air Filled with Shots.
Then the rioting broke, loose in serious
form. Shots were fired and the air was
filled with missiles. Many fell in the
melee, and it was here that Louis Johnson
met his death. After the mob had moved
to other scenes Johnson's body was picked
up in the rear of Loper's place.
After nothing of Loper's place remained
for the infuriated crowd, a rush was made
for the levee, which is usually populated
with negroes. But most of them had disappeared
.
Attacks were made upon several store
buildings in which it was believed the negro
had been secreted. Entrance was
forced to these places and stocks of merchandise
turned topsy turvy in the search for
refugees.
Shortly before midnight, the mob broke
into Fishman's pawnshop and secured a
quantity of rifles, shotguns, revolvers and
ammunition. With these they armed
selves and started to march the streets them in
absolute control of the situation.
Stand back, gentlemen, or I'll shoot
Chafin Protects Negro.
everyone of you who touches this man,
were the words of Eugene W. Chafin, prohibition
candidate for president, who faced
a mob that had attacked a negro while Mr.
Chafin was delivering a public address
the east side of the square last night. or
For this act Chafin was struck on the
left side of the face with a brickbat hurled
him by member a of the mob.
Chafin was well along in his speech when
a negro pursued by a mob, came toward
the speaker's stand from Fifth and Wash
Ington streets, where he had been pulled.
from a street car.
The crowd closed in on the negro, and
had him on the ground, beating him
with their fists and clubs. The negro fi-
nally got away and jumped on the platform
.
It was at this point that Mr. Chafin
stepped to the front of the mob, put his
hand to his hip pocket and threatened to
shoot anyone who touched the negro. Mr.
Chafin's threat had the desired effect, al-
though he had no weapon.
During the fight the negro pulled a knife
from his pocket and slashed sveral white
men. Mr. Chafin was not seriously in-
jured. James Scott was struck by a stray
bullet and almost instantly killed.
Mob Lynches Negro.
After burning many houses in the negro
quarter, the mob, which became more
more desperate, as the night passed, finally and
gratified its thirst for blood this morning
at 3 o'clock wher
,, a negro was lynched at
the corner of Twelfth and Madison streets,
right in the heart of the so- called" bad
lands."
Troops arrived at the scene too late
prevent the lynching. Some of the mem to
bers of the mob declared that the negro
lynched had shot two white men. They
said that in a fight with the whites the
negro was forced into a corner at the saloon
and grocery, on the corner of Twelfth
and Madison. When retreat was cut off
the negro is said to have opened fire,
wounding two.
Then came the cry," Get the rope."
All the members of the mob eagerly took
up the cry. The negro was caught and
dragged to the street. Here he was beaten
and shot five times and then a rope was
swung around his neck and the other end
of the rope thrown over the limb of a tree
in front of the store. With a cry of satisfaction
the negro was swung high off the
ground. He was dead in a few moments.
Dance Around Swinging Body.
After riddling the body with bullets the
mob commenced to dance around the tree.
At this point a company of troops from
Decatur arrived and commenced firing,
causing the rioters to disperse in a hurry.
By daylight the streets had practically
been cleared and the troops were in control
of the situation.
Governor Deneen was at his office all
night personally directing the calling out
of the militia.
Harry T. Loper, owner of the restaurant
destroyed, said:
" I have been through one riot in Cincin
nati in 1883, the greatest in this country-,
when 100 men were killed. It was to avoid
loss of life that I took those men out of
town. I did not favor the men; I have no
interest in them whatever, and would go
just as far to punish them as anybody,
after sng through the Cincinnati riot and but
knowing this sheriff as I do, I knew he
would be killed first before he would let
the jail be taken. I thought I would save
lives by removing the colored men.
" I would not shoot a singie man to protect
my place and I only shot into the
crowd when in personal danger myself. I
would not kill a single man to save my
place."
Troops Rushed to Springfield.
The following are the companies of state
troops called to suppress further rioting:
Companies G and L. First infantry, and
Company L, Fifth infantry, all of Peoria;
Company C, Fifth infantry; Troop D, First
cavalry, and the gatling gun section, all of
Springfield; Company C, Fifth infantry;
Troop D First
cavalry and the
, gatling
,
gun section of Sprinfield; Company
F.
Third infantry, Pontiac; Troop G, First
cavalry, Peoria, and the following companies
from the Fifth infantry: B. Taylor-
ville; A, Pekin; B, Bloomington; F. Quincy:
H, Decatur; I, Danville, and L, Peoria.
Bloomington, Peoria, Pekin and Decatur
companies are here at 7 o'clock this
ing. morn-
