MARSHAL IN DANGER
Indiana Militia in Readiness
to Check Mob.
OFFICER HAD SHOT STRIKER
Tell City Labor Troubles Take Serious
Proportions- Four Companies
of Guards Under Arms to Prevent
Storming of Jail at Cannelton,
Which Holds Sheriff Prisoner,
Indianapolis, Ind., Aug. 9.- Expectant
of trouble at Tell City as a result of labor
difficulties there, Adjt. Gen. Oran Perry
has informed four companies of the In-
diana National Guard to hold themselves
in readiness to move at once.
Gen. Perry left to- day for Tell City to
investigate the trouble.
Edward Hawkins, marshal of Tell City,
last night shot and instantly killed Will-
iam Danver, a union striker, and then
went to Cannelton, where he surrendered
to the sheriff and was placed in jail. The
strikers formed into a mob to lynch the
prisoner, and factory employes who refused
to join the strikers were beaten and
driven from the town.
Trouble Dates Back to Flood,
The trouble dates back to the flood in
the Ohio, when the State offered aid to
sufferers, but the people of Tell City refused
it. Shortly after the flood subsided,
several workingmen said they had not
been paid for their work in helping to
relieve destitution during the flood, and
they organized a branch of the American
Federation of Labor.
Other labor unions sprang up, and soon
an effort was made to organize all the
workmen in the three chair factories.
When the workingmen served notice on
the factory owners that they would expect
the union to be recognized, one of
the three factories closed down, and the
men who had refused to join the union
in this factory were taken over to the
other two factories and used to fill the
places of the men who had quit. The
three chair factories are owned and operated
by one company.
A short time after this several of the
other factories of the town closed down,
and now there is but one industry running
, that of the United States hame
factory. Employes who refused to strike
are being supported by factory owners
and this greatly incensed the strikers.,
