boys.
All organizations are urged to secure literature on the case as well as
post card resolutions addressed to the Supreme Court.
-
On with the mass fight for the release of the Scottsboro boys. Answer
the manouvers of the United States Supreme Court with a rising thunder
protest against the lynch verdicts, against the whole hieous system of
of imperialist oppression and persecution of the Negro masses.
INTENSIFY MASS FIGHT FOR BOYS
William L. Patterson, General Secretary of the International Labor
Defense issued a statement yesterday calling upon all districts of the or
MOTHER MOONEY AND NEW I. L. D. GENERAL SECRETARY.
Mrs. Mary Mooney, 84- year old mother of Tom Mooney, and William
L. Patterson, well- known Negro labor leader and newly- elected general
secretary of the International Labor Defense, photographed together at
Washington when they attended the U. S. Supreme Court hearing on the
Scottsboro case, October 10.
ganization, and all groups opposed to the lynch verdicts, to intensify the
mass fight for the Scottsboro boys. He declared:
" This postponement of the U. S. Supreme Court decision indicates
this body of capitalist tools is determined to continue the campaign of
persecution and lynch- law set in motion by the Southern bosses in their
attempt to terrorize the Negro masses through the legal lynching of the
Scottsboro boys. It means that the Supreme Court is afraid to render
its decision, for fear it will affect the election returns. Only mass pressure
can save the Scottsboro boys. The refusal of the Supreme Court to
announce its decision before the election is in itself a decision- a decision
against the oppressed Negro masses and the whole working class as well
as against the Scottsboro victims.
" It means for the working class that the struggle for the liberation
of the Scottsboro boys must be intensified, multiplied a hundred- fold, if
they are to be saved from legal lynching. What has been done so far,
great as it has been, is as nothing compared to what must be done.
Don't let the Scottsboro boys!
" Demand their immediate, unconditional burn release!"
The court will convene again on November 7, when it is
expected it will finally announce its decision.
This means that the Supreme Court is playing politics with the lives
of the seven innocent Negro boys now sitting in the death cells in Kilby
Prison, Montgomery, Alabama. It means that the Supreme Court justices
are afraid to make their decision known before the election, that they are
afraid of the wrath of the Negro and white workers against an unfavorable
decision. It means further that the Supreme Court is deliberately
dragging out the case in the hope thereby of disarming the vigilance of
the masses, of quieting the angry protesis rising from millions of workers
and intellectuals in all parts of the world against the frightful attempt
to legally lynch these innocent Negro children.
The mass fight for the freedom of the Scottsboro boys must go for
Iward on a scale than ever before.
greater •
WASHINGTON, D. C., Oct. 24.- The United States Supreme
Court adjourned this morning without announcing its
decision on the appeal argued before it on October 10 by International
Labor Defense attorneys against the hideous Scotts
lynch verdicts, sentencing 7 innocent lads to burn in the
boro electric chair.
