PEOPLE TALK LYNCHING
Until They Find Out Intended
Victim Is Dying.
Oklahoma City, O. T., June 17.-E. W.
Johnson, vice president of the Classen
Real Estate company and who served
through the Cuban campaign with the
Rough Riders, was shot and killed here
today by W. T. McMichael, as a result
of a contest over a land claim. Before
he died Johnson shot and fatally wounded
McMichael. E. E. Brown, editor of
the Times- Journal, one of oldest
newspaper men in the territory, fired
five shots at McMichael in defense of
Johnson, but none took effect. Brown
and McMichael were arrested. There
was talk of lynching McMichael untff
it was learned that his wound was fatal.
The shooting took place in Woodiawe
addition, in the eastern end of the city.
McMichael had been contesting for
twelve years the homestead right to 160
acres of land in the addition. He was
defeated in all the courts and in Wash
ington, but was never ejected from the
claim, where he lived with his wife and
children. Cortez Brown and E. E. Brown,
editors of the Times Journal, bought lots
in the addition through Johnson's company
and were improving them. Yesterday
McMichael had attacked Brown
for entering the land. Today Browa
and Johnson attempted to lead away
a cow placed on Brown's lots by Mo
Michael when McMichael fired without
warning at Johnson. Johnson fell with
a bullet in his head and McMichael continued
to fire at him, but without further
effect. Brown drew his revolver and
began firing at McMichael and finally
Johnson, dying, raised himself upon his
elbow, rested his pistol on his wrist
and fired twice at McMichael. One shot
struck McMichael in the abdomen, the
other going wild, and he dropped his revolver
and ran for ald, Johnson died in
ten minutes. None of Brown's shots
took effect and he was unhurt. A big
crowd gathered and there was a move to
lynch McMichael, when it was found
that he was wounded perhaps fatally,
and they desisted.
Johnson was 24 years old. He fought
through the Cuban campaign as a member
of Troop D of the Rough Riders and
Was personally known to President
Roosevelt. At San Juan he was shot
in the knee, but recover and rejoined
hi troop. MeMichael had been involved
in litigation so long that he had become
desperate. The land in question is
ued at 250,000$, val
