SWIFT PUNISHMENT.
One Negro Lynched and Three Others
Have a Narrow Escape.
NASHVILLE, April 29.- A terrible crime
followed by swift punishment is reported
from Goodlettsville, ten miles from
Nashville, on the St. Louis branch of
the Louisville and Nashville road. The
mile from town, died about a month
ago, leaving a wife and daughter nearly
grown. Senia, aged fifteen.
Wednesday night a cousin of Senia's,
Mary Bruce, spent the night with her.
and one or two other women were there
sitting up with a sick child. About 10
o'clock two negroes broke into the house
and, after robbing two rooms, came into
the room where the girls were in bed.
As if by premeditation one of the brutes
put out the light, and each seized one of
the girls, who screamed and resisted until
they were overpowered, the elder being
badly injured before the brutes ac-
complished their purpose.
The women sitting in the other room,
instead of rushing to their assistance
were frightened and ran away from the
house for help, the nearest house being
half a mile distant. Before they tame
with help the brutes had more than
once repeated their crime. Search was
at once instituted and at daylight every
man in and around Goodlettsville was
on the hunt. Five negroes were captured
and taken before the girls for
identification. One proved an alibi;
Henry Grizzard was identified and
hanged to a tree. The other three were
sent to jail to await developments. Be
fore he died Henry Grizzard confessed
his crime and implicated Mack Harper,
but the girls were too excited to positively
identify Harper at the time. On
Grizzard's body was pirned a card reading
:" Death to the man who cuts the
body down before midnight."
Sheriff Hill arrived here yesterday
evening with Eph Grizzard, John Griz
zard, Mack Harper and Maxwell Jones,
who are held on suspicion of connection
with the Goodlettsville outrage. The
Misses Bruce were unable to identify
either one of them, Henry Grizzard
was the only man lynched. The mob
shot at an officer naraed Morton, who
attempted to escape with two of the
prisoners without taking them before
girls for identification. Mr. Morton re-
one large shot in the neck, but
ceived was not seriously injured.
