LYNCHED.
The Doors of the Jail at Hermann, M.,
Broken In by a Band of Vigilants- Whit
ney, a Cringing Assassin, Taken From His
Cell and Hanged to a Tree.
ST. LOUIS, Mo., June 6.
A special from Hermann, Mo., says that
the city was thrown into a state of intense
excitement, shortly after midnight Tuesday
morning, by the lynching of Whitney, the
murderer of young Burchard. The mob
numbered about two hundred. They surrounded
the jail, guards being stationed
with drawn revolvers to keep back the curious
crowd which was attracted by the
noise made in breaking the jail doors
The Jailer refused to surrender the keys,
when axes were brought. Whitney sup
posed the purpose of the assault, and
crouched upon his cell floor and prayed
fervently. His voice could be heard out
side. The Jailer was forced to lead the
way to Whitney's cell, which was
then forced open, and a long rope which
the mob had brought with them was put
around his waist. Half, fainting, the
doomed man fell on his knees. When
once in the open air he asked leave to pray
again. This was granted, but as he continued
his appeals to Heaven too long he was
jerked to his feet and dragged through the
town into a dense woods that covers the
bluffs, a dozen of the lynching party warning
the crowd not to follow, and intimidating
them by displaying revolvers.
When the woods were reached, the prison
er was handed over to a dozen masked men.
He said his real name was Fisher, and not
Whitney; that his parents lived in Virginia;
he did not know whether he killed Burchard
or not, as he and his partner, whose name
was Collier, fired five shots each. He then
shook hands with part of the mob, bidding
them good- by, after which he was strung to
a tree. The mob then dispersed.
It was expected that the Court would hold
a special session to try the accused, but
when it was announced yesterday that the
trial would go over to the fall term the indignation
was general, and threats of lynching
were made. The mob was quite orderly
in its behavior. There was an absence of
conventional masks, and many of the lynchers
were recognized ..
Whitney was a desperado of the James
stripe. He and another outlaw named Collier
, after robbing several stores in Gasconade
County on the 19th of last month, at
tempted to burglarize the store of Buchard
& Lakes, in the little town of Bein, during
which they shot and killed young Burchard
a son of one of the proprietors.,
