fall upon the guilty is not would be something for
tune with the sentiment of
that supposedly prevails in The expense of running a
As sheriff of his ration must be estimated in
communities.
presumably the foe of all terms on considering the high
Archbold commands for
and a bitter enemy of the
of administering justice. time in the witness chair.
commissioned to arrest a
a declares that
for stealing ethnologist
was wanted An
60, pursued the man for Indians danced the turkey
with a small squad of depu- hope the Indians will not be
catching him. He then had set fashions in costume as
deputies round up a" mob" of the dance.
farmers and framed up a
party, with a well staged The thousands of requests
outraged people and a pre- the Becker trial may cause the
preparation to take the prisoner's to feel that, in addition to
was around the man's medals, he is something of
decided to confess .. This idol.
sheriff was after, and as
thief had acknowledged his Mr. Morgan's attitude
dismissed the" mob" with
paign contributions was that
for its assistance in ex- who is not accustomed to
truth. to be worried about small
which this sheriff reports
him that in appealing Col. Roosevelt experiences
however fictitious or actually a man who earnestly believes
purpose, he was violating chological moment has arrived
solemn precepts. Police the clock ticks.
not regard it as their chief
confessions. This is the
Sometimes a New York man
called third degree, the ex- get settled comfortably in the
which has now been officially chair before" Next!" is bawled
congressional investigating
ear.
Sheriff Stahl of Kenosha
different in his methods from
The present campaign is
torturers who applied hot
charged that some of it is
soles of the feet of their vic- ing over into 1916.
pinched their flesh with exqui-
avoid fatal injury but to in-
SHOOTING
, who crushed the hands STARS
and stretched the limbs on
BY PHILANDER JOHNSON
applied a hundred and one
this theme of bodily torment
acknowledgments of guilt. It Study in Emotion
very greatly surprise this tragedy
"
Does move you
indiscreet sheriff to be dis- asked the impressionable
office by the governor of his" No," replied the manager
prosecuted. Yet he de- has been paying pretty good
punishment for going to the The style of entertainment
applying lynch law methods in me weep is farce comedy."
a confession of theft from
his sole business was to
Unpardonable Offense
to court.
" Do you mean to say that
says he will be his own arrested a burglar and
will watch with interest wicked metropolis?"
any democratic statesman" Yes; the miscreant stole
Mr. Murphy can carry out tern and a jimmy from another
. who had a better pull than
is fortunate that Congress Illustrious Example
session. Col. Roosevelt might The ladies, we have sometimes
hard to resist a temptation
Oft- times contend for the
few warm personal remarks But who shall mention it
Since leading statesmen
Sickles considers himself
In the Old Days
style of combat demanding
, in whose use he is forti-" Did you say you found
inclination nor experience. next to a plow?" asked
citizen.
claiming to have had a corking" Yes," replied the other.
Wiley allows it to be in-" Well, it will make a good
has gotten a great many on the agricultural vote
out of life. doesn't point to the fact as
he stands in with the harvester
Morgan to pose for a pic-
by photographers as a Definition.
more perilously fascinating
" What is syncopation?"
student of music
" Syncopation,". replied the
