The Descendants of Africa.
" The" Centre Bureau of Relief," Wash-
ington, an organization of Africans, has
sent out a circular" in behalf of seven millions
of outraged colored American citizens
," demanding" a free and equal exercise
of the political and civil rights and
privileges for the colored American citizen
in the United States, as are guaranteed
them by the Constitution and laws of this
government." They allege the practice of
violence and intimidation against them in
the Southern States, by" whippings, burnings
and lynchings."
The bureau has issued a call for a national
convention at Washington, on the
first Monday in February, 1890. The objects
to be attained by the convention are
follows First To organize a
stated as:.
national association of colored American
citizens, by which a united and continuous
effort shall be made to relieve them from
the personal outrages inflicted upon them
in the Southern states, and to obtain all
the rights of American citizens now denied
them in parts of this country. Second.
To ascertain the opposing influences that
retard the growth of their educational,
moral and material interests. Third. To
invoke Congress to pass such legislation as
will enable the colored Americans to exercise
the right of franchise in the Southern
states without fear or molestation; to pass
the Blair Educational bill, and also pass a
bill to pay the depositors of the Freedmen's
Bank in full of their deposits.
Here are two measures, of the most obnoxious
character, to be advocated by this
national assembly of the descendants of
Africa. This very movement of theirs
looking to a national organization of their
race, will have a tendency to hasten the
solution of the race problem in this country
, which, sooner or later, will be settled,
as it only can be settled, on a white basis.
The Speakership.
The Baltimore Sun of Saturday last, in
an article on the officers of the General
Assembly, says that Philip D. Laird, of
Montgomery county, and Hon. Frank T.
Shaw, of Carroll, are mentioned for Speaker
of the House.
On the same day the Cecil Democrat
contained this editorial paragraph-
For Speaker of the House of Delegates,
Frank T. Shaw, of Carroll. Able. Honest.
Capable.
The ADVOCATE does not know whether
Hon. Frank T. Shaw desires to be Speaker
or that he would accept the position if tendered
him, but it is sure that he would
make an excellent presiding officer. He
is able, clear- headed, quick, and well versed
in parliamentary law. His selection would
ensure a highly competent Speaker, and
would be a compliment to the sturdy
Democracy of Carroll, who never falter.
With but a narrow majority in a vote of
8,000, they have never failed to send
Democrats to the Legislature since the
party gained ascendancy in 1867. No
Democratie county in the state can show
as good a record, although they have larger
majorities.
Another Blow at the South.
In response to a call for a convention
about one hundred negroes met at Atlanta,
Georgia, on Tuesday, to discuss matters
to the colored race. Among
important
other things the speakers urged the negroes
not to give their names to the census takers.
in order that the number of Democratic
Congressional representatives may be diminished
. There can be no doubt that
this action was prompted by leading white
Radicals. If the scheme be carried out,
and it probably can be done to a certain
extent, the census of 1890, like that of
1880, would not show the true population
of the South, which would, accordingly,
not be apportioned her proper representation
in the House of Representatives.
The scheme is wicked in conception, and a
blow at a republican form of government.
It is a blow at equal rights and equal representation
, and designed to lessen the
power and influense of a part of the Union,
composed of states that are supposed to possess
a standing equal with other members
of the confederati
The President on Thursday appointed
sixteen postmasters. In thirteen cases the
incumbents were removed, in two they resigned
, and in one case the office became
Presidential.
This is Mr. Harrison's practical way.
When he was a candidate, and wanted the
vote of those who believe in civil service
reform, he declared-
" Only the interests of the public service
should suggest removals from office. It will
be my sincere purpose, if elected, to advance
the reform."
Federal Interference at Elections.
"
President Harrison took high ground in
his inaugural address in favor of Federal
interference in Congressional elections, and
his first annual message to Congress, three
weeks hence, will probably renew the subject
. The New York Sun thinks that the
inaugural laid the foundation for just as
extensive, audacious and outrageous a
scheme for Executive interference in Congressional
elections as the party now in
power may dare to carry through, and intimates
to the President and his followers
that the Democracy is now quite ready to
meet the issue. Senator Sherman's bill,
introduced at the last session, will no doubt
be called up at the next, and upon that
measure one of the severest struggles that
ever took place in Congress may be ex-
pected.
Gen. Wade Hampton, of Columbia,
South Carolina, has addressed a very sharp
letter to Postmaster- General Wanamaker,
who removed the postmaster at that place,
before the expiration of his commission,
after assuring Senator Hampton that he
would not do so. The Senator says he will
" know better in the future what reliance
to place on statements emanating from the
same source."
Mahone and Foraker were both buried
in the same grave on the 5th inst. In life
they were united. In death they are not
divided. Requiescat in pace.
Chief Postoffice Inspector Rathbone has
received information of the arrest, at Shreve-
port, La., of S. A. Beckwith, a mailing clerk
in the postoffice at that place, on a charge of
opening letters. Also of the arrest of Law-
rence F. Maguire, a clerk in postoffice" A,"
Boston, Mass., on a similar charge.
On Wednesday last week the barn of
Jacob Weikert, of Greenmount, Adams
county, Pa. was burned. All his crops were
lost.,
