THREE attempts have been made upon the
life of Guiteau, and at no time has he received
more than a scratch. When he was shot at in
the van as he was being conveyed from the
Court- house to the jail, by the" man on the
sorrel horse," he fell to the floor in fear and
cried and shouted like a good fellow, imploring
Edelin wh was upon the seat with the driver,
to protect him. He was beside himself with
fear, and tried hard to curl up under the seat.
When talking to a reporter afterwards about
the attempt, he declared that he wasn't scared
a particle, but" sat down upon the floor of the
van as he thought that would be the safest
thing to do." He said he didn't know but what
a mob had surrounded the van. However, he
declares himself satisfied that the Lord is
protecting him, every shot aimed at
him goes astray. because
GUITEAU'S TRIAL.
The Assassin Simulating the Role of An
The trial
Insane Man.
The trial of Charles J. Guiteau, charged
with the murder of the President, began at
Washington on the 14th inst. before Judge
Cox. The Court- room was densely packed
with spectators, most of whom were men, the
rush being so great that not more than six
women succeeded in gaining admission. The
prisoner was conveyed from the jail
to Court in the prison and
van, on
alighting at the Court- house, he looked
around hurriedly with a frightened air, seeming
to fear a mob. There was no manifestation of
violence, however, and the prisoner was
marched, handcuffed, between two offices into
the Court- room, On taking his seat Guiteau
looked hastily around the room, rubbed his
hands, picked up a sheet of paper lying on the
table, threw it down again, and then, turning
to his sister, Mrs. Scoville, shook hands with
her. He nodded his head with a short jerk to
his brother, and then settled back into his
chair, his face assuming a scowl. Those who
watched him closely formed the opinion that
this expression was put on as part of the play.
As soon as court opened Guiteau made an of
fort to address the Court, and in his effort to
be heard, pounded the table with his fist. The
Court refused to hear him, and he subsided
with a scowl on his face. His counsel, Robin
son, hereupon rose and asked for a postponement
, upon the plea of not having sufficient
assistance for the defense. Guiteau sprang
to his feet aud informed the Court
that Robinson
was asking for
more
time without authority. In fact, said
Guiteau, Robinson is not wanted in the case.
The officers seized him and attempted to make
him sit down, but he shook them off, with the
admonition to attend to their own business.
" I want no more talk out of Mr. Robinson,"
he cried in a loud voice." The order for him
to withdraw from this case is peremptory. I
will conduct the
case myself." He was
ordered to sit down by the Court,
and obeying, manifested the
greatest
displeasure by the expression of his countenance
. It was finally agreed, at the suggestion
of Mr. Scoville, Guiteau's brother- in- law, who
is also an attorney for the defense, to proceed
to impanel the jury. Guitean, however,
before this conclusion had been arrived at,
made a number of attempts to address
the Court, saying he desired to precede
the trial by an address for the purpose
of influencing public opinion. Judge Cox
informed him that they were then to try his
case, and not to mould public opinion. Of
seventy- five who had been summoned, five
+ er was issued
for the drawing of seventy- five additional
names from the box.
The second day of the trial of Guiteau was
not dissimilar from the first, with the single
exception that the assassin was not so manifestly
violent. It is thought that the expressions
of those who were interrogated as to their
fitness for jurors, had much to do with the
change in his manner. When asked their opinion
as to what disposition should be made of Guiteau,
the answer almost universally was, that he
should be hanged. One man, named Lynch,
said he should be hanged and burned. As he
said it he looked straight into Guiteau's eyes,
and the force of the expression made Guiteau
wince, although he tried to force a smile. Ne
one was accepted to had formed a" firm,"" decided
" or" unalterable" opinions, and further
than this, their opinion respecting insanity,
religion, politics, etc., had to be nicely shaded
to the tastes of the defence to avoid a challenge.
From the seventy- five talesmen four more
jurors were selected, making nine in all, and
the Court ordered the Marshal to summon an
other list of seventy- for the next day, after
which Court adjourned five.
