LYNCH LAW IN VERMONT.
A MOB OF WEALTHY FARMERS LED
BY A JUSTICE OF THE PEACE,
Hanging a Man Acensed of Assault, and
Giving Him a Coat of Tar and Feathers
Little Evidence of the Vietim's Guilt.
RUTLAND, Vt., July 8.- On Thursday night
at about 10 o'clock from fifteen to twenty men
surrounded the house of Timothy Coakley, a
well- to- do Irish farmer in the town of Shrews
bury, a mountain town a dozen miles east of
Rutland. The leaders of the party called at
the door and explained that they wanted Paul
Ellis, whose reputation was hot the best, and
whom they charged with attempted criminal
assault on the fourteen- year- old daughter of
Charles Gleason. Ellis expected
to be
gin working for Mr. Coakley the next
day, and had just arrived there. In
opposition to the wish of Coakley, but on
the assurance of one of the leaders, who is a
Justico of the Peace, a number of men orowded
into the house and tied a rope around Ellis's
waist. The entire mob grasped the rope, which
was over thirty feet long, and dragged the man
out of the house and down the road to a spot
over half a mile from the house. Here a halt
was ordered, and the victim was told to prepare
for death. The rope was shifted from the
man's waist to his neck, and the other end
thrown over the limb of a tree. Whether Ellis
was actually hanged, or whether he was so
frightened that he thought he was, is hard to
determine at present. He says that he was
pulled up a number of times and threatened
with death unless he acknowledged the at
tempted assault. The lynchers, who talk freely
of their exploit, and seem proud of it, said they
only threatened. At any rate, Ellis acknowledged
nothing, made what he thought was his
dying prayers, and admitted a number of petty
thefts, all the while begging most piteously for
his life. At length he was treated to a coat of
tar and feathers, and, more dead than alive,
turned loose in the woods. Among the party
of lynchers, besides the Justice of the Peace,
were a number of influential and wealthy farmers
- in fact, every farmer of wealth within a radius
of many miles being among them, and
the father of the girl, Charles Gleason.
Investigation, in which every prominent
actor was interviewed, including the victim of
the lynchers, makes the attempted assault
somewhat questionable. Gleason, the father
of the girl, is a very poor farmer, owning a
mountain farm mortgaged for more than it is
worth, on which a precarious living only can be
made, A tumble- down rookery of a house shelters
the father, two girls, and two boys. The
mother is rallying from a recent confinement
at her brother's, in Boston, for they are too
poor at home to furnish proper food and treatment
. Forty rods from the house is the district
, school, with twenty or more pupils, and
windows and doors wide opon. The alleged
attempt occurred on June 19. That morning
Ellis was at Gleason's house when the latter
left for Rutland. Gleason owes Ellis money.
and Ellis says he tried to borrow more, but
was refused. Gleason admits that he was
trying to get money to pay his taxes with, but
denies asking Ellis for it. On the other hand,
he charges Ellis with having stolen$ 5 while he
was in the house. After Gleason left the girl
commenced churning, and she says that it was
while she was at this work that Ellis attempted
to assault her, but that she ran into the house.
Ellis says that she asked him to help her churn.
Three times Gleason visited the house where
Ellis boarded, once meeting him, and each time
threatening his life and displaying a large
knife. On Thursday Gleason came to Rutland
and purchased tar. The lynching was talked
of on Wednesday night, but a sufficient crowd
could not be got together, and it was put off
until Thursday night. In the whole town of
Shrewsbury only two families were met with
who sided with Ellis- the Coakleys, where the
abduction took place, and one other.
Ellis occasionally gots drunk, but is a first
class man on the farm. He gets high wages,
hoards a little, and always has money about
him. To- day he turned up in Rutland, and,
although somewhat sore from being hauled a
half mile over a rough road, is in seemingly
good condition. The Justice also was in town,
and the two met. High words followed, and
Ellis was arrested, charged with drunkenness.
His trial occurs on Monday morning, in which
some of the facts may be brought out.
The people of Rutland, as well as Shrews
bury, uphold the lynchers. This is on account
of the poor character of Ellis and the wealth of
those engaged in the lynching. Ellis has two
brothers here, who have the respect of the
community. The local daily newspaper, after
giving some meagre facts in relation to the
case this morning, came out with a stinging
editorial article demanding the punishment
those engaged in the outrage. of
