money. It's nobody's business what I
wanted it for. I did it. I found it very
easy. I say this for the benefit of those
who want to wreck trains. It is just as
easy to wreck a passenger train as it is
to wreck a freight train. I did not get
anything out of the wreck. I moved a
rail, put it across the track, and the whole
business seemed to fall. There were plenty
of dead folks with money- one man had
$ 500- but before I could get at it the live
ones got up and then the crowds came. I
skipped out then."
A MADMAN'S I'S FRI FRENZY.
Arthur Palmer Kills His Brother and
Mortally Wounds His Mother
and Sister.
New York, Jan. 18.- At Mamaroneck,
Westchester county, to- night, Arthur
Palmer, during a fit of insanity, shot his
brother, Leonard Palmer, killing him almost
instantly, and fatally wounding his
mother and sister. The murderer has been
considered mildly insane for some time
past, but this afternoon a fit of frenzy
seized him, which resulted some hours
later in his securing a revolver and attack-
ing the family. He began a general
fusillade, first turning the weapon on his
sister. Gertrude. He fired two shots at her,
both of which took effect, one in her abdo!
men end the other in her right arm. Then
he shot his mother, three bullets entering
her body, two in the back and one in the
side. Leonard Palmer, who heard the shots
while working in the barn, ran into the
house.
The insane man met him with several
shots, one of the bullets striking him
squarely in the forehead and killing him.
Gertrude, the sister, managed to escape
from the house and fled, with blood streaming
from her wounds, to a neighbor's
house.
When help arrived, Mrs: Palmer had
lapsed into unconsciousness, and, after
telling in a hysterical way the leading details
of the tragedy, the girl Gertrude also
became unconscious. They will probably
die.
The murderer, who is a tall, powerful
man, escaped to the woods, where he is
supposed to be hiding. A large posse is
hunting for him.
FRED CHISM EXTRADITED.
Governor Leedy Surrenders a Mis-
souri Negro, Who Is Charged
With Abduction.
Sedalia, Mo., Jan. 18 .-( Special.) Last fall
Fred Chism, a coal black negro, induced
Rosa Thouvenal, a 16- year- old white girl,
the daughter of a Benton county farmer,
to run away from home with him. The
couple went to Lawrence, Kas., where they
were married by a colored preacher. Chism
was arrested at Lawrence on a warrant
charging him with abduction, and the girl
was persuaded to return to her Missouri
home. Governor Morrill refused to honor
the requisition of the Missouri authorities
and Chism was discharged from custody.
Governor Morrill, it was stated at the
time, refused to honor the requisition on
the ground that Chism's attorneys claimed
that if the negro was taken back to Mis-
souri he would be lynched by the friends
and neighbors of the girl's father. Governor
Leedy has taken a different view of the
case, and on Saturday issued the papers
for Chism's arrest. He was brought here
last night, where his attorney made an
unsuccessful effort to secure a writ of
habeas corpus. Chism was taken to War-
saw this morning. Mayor P. D. Hastain,
of this city, has been retained to assist in
the prosecution.
BOLD DAYLIGHT ROBBERY.
Bag Containing$ 5,600 Stolen From in
Front of a Bank on Broad-
way, New York.
New York, Jan. 18.- A bag containing
$ 5,600 was stolen to- day from in front of
the Pacific State bank, Broadway, near
Houston street. It was the property of
the Metropolitan Traction Company, and
had been sent to the bank in charge of
two men as part of the usual day's de-
pesit. It was in$ 5 and$ 10 bills: Several
baga of coin had been carried from the
wagon into the bank, when one of the
men, according to the story told to the
police, set the sack, the most valuable one
of all, upon the sidewalk to be ready for
the messenger when he should emerge
from the bank. The man at the wagon
turned to lift out another bag and when
he looked for the sack on the sidewalk it
had disappeared. The street, which is a
busy one, was crowded at the time, but
none of those in sight was carrying the
stolen bag, nor was any trace of it to be
found. The police are investigating
the
case. The treasurer of the Traction company
says that the two expressmen are
old and trusted employes of the company.
and that he has every reason to believe
their story. They are under bond for ten
times the amount stolen.
ATTEMPTED TO ROB BOX OFFICE
Cashier of the Baldwin Theater, at
Springfield, Mo., Has a Tussle
With a Robber.
Springfield, Mo., Jan. 18 .-( Special.) A
bold attempt was made to rob Jack Will-
iams, cashier at the box office at the Bald-
win theater to- night. Beach& Bowers'
minstrels were playing and about$ 200 was
in the drawer. The door to the box office
was accidentally left open and a man entered
and demanded the cash. Williams
attacked the robber with his fists and held
him at bay until an officer came and took
him in charge. The would- be robber gave
the name of J. C. Cloud, of Dallas, Tex.
He had a certificate of deposit for$ 100 on
his person. He was under the influence of
liquor. Williams' hands were badly hurt
in the tustle.
A Brakeman Fatally Shot.
Grafton, W. Va .. Jan. 18.- Frank Corn-
wall, aged 18, son of the superintendent of
the public schools of Taylor county, shot
Tom Hazlipp, a Baltimore& Ohio brakeman
, about midnight. Young Cornwall
found Hazlipp beating another railroader.
Interfering, the boy was knocked down,
when, drawing a revolver, he fired two
shots, inflicting fatal wounds:
Cornwall
was arrested.
Mississippi Negro Lynched.
Columbus, Miss., Jan. 18.- One day last
week, Peter Henderson, colored, porter
a Pullman car, assaulted Flagman Griffin on
