fuil confession.
PHILADELPHIA, May 1.-
it is not surprising
with majority of the members
Minneapolis St. a
and
well- ordered mob and independent Republican
vengeance. pointed to harmonize the party
indicate that no basis of settlement
Herald.] vel differences will be reached
It is a beautiful to- morrow. The independents
advancement of will not recede from their
to have kept even divorcement from machine
wealth and popula- ing nominations, and will
of importance in machine made candidate for the
often mistaken law paign. The stalwarts, on the
usurped the place of assert it is hardly probable the
have any proposition to offer
incredible that in accept.
, with all the off-
Bold Burglars
executing the law, a
out its unlawful CLEVELAND, May 1.- About
so uninterruptedly. night the clerk who sleeps in
report says:" The
but found nothing store, on Superior street, in the
the same mind." the city, was seized by two
account for such una- of entered the store to retire, was
found this
has been brought walted an hour until the electric
statute books with the building, were extinguished
of the courts in with drills and sledges, stolen
technicalities to be inter- boring machine shop, they
Courts, juries and safe, from which they took$ 150
swift and adequate after appropriating three costly
impossible.
large city in which The Smith Law in
Lynch usurping
CINCINNATI, May 1.- Judge
But if it is to be,
sentimentalism got police court, to- day overruled
law have a chance. quash an information in the
inferences must not Schumann, charged with selling
The state mu liquor on Sunday contrary to the
favor. Sergeant ment known as the Smith law.
greatest criminal ruled a demurrer to the information
known of a thor- that the facts stated were properly
being convicted. In the affidavits and the information
come to a pass that they were sufficient to constitute
thoroughly guilty person under the law.
explanation of the
is an explanation Gamblers Triumphant
a reproach to our
ST. LOUIS, May 1.- Judge
remedied. Ich should criminal court has sustained
legal execution of gamblers' attorney that the
no lynchings, for making gambling a felony,
mistrust of the law tional, on account of certain
possible. its passage. There are about
dictments pending against the
. throws
this test case them out
the Globe.] gamblers can only be prosecuted
T. Williams, of lower court for misdemeanor.
suicide this morning Striking Carpenters
No cause is given,
CINCINNATI, O., May 1.- The
Williams was an old
, and leaves a wife strike is fairly on. Builders refuse
was aged about 40 extra fifty cents per day and
belong to the union are out.
has been appointed to persuade
April 22: All but are at work to cease.
five forges in the
blacksmith shop are Last week a prairie fire
will have to be Benton county, came sweeping
are expected to the dwelling of Jacob
helpers went to dangering the buildings
that they had Mrs. Woolhart was at home
strike, when in attempting to arrest the flames
to go, and as took fire. She had the presence
their money they to throw herself upon the
. Foreman roll over and over till she
work busy watch- flames. She was somewhat
