LYNCH, OF COLORADO.
HIS LATEST JOB OF ANTICIPATING JUSTICE
AT GEORGETOWN.
The by no means unexpected intelligence
that Schamle, the Georgetown
murderer, had been lynched was received
in this city yesterday. The first news
came in the shape of the following telegram
to the Sheriff's office:
" Sedala cannot have Schamle. His
goose is cooked. Found him hanging
over a pigsty this morning. Soltpetre
can't save him. Biggest shows of the
season."
Fuller but far from complete information
was received by telegraph and mail
during the day. From all that can be
gathered concerning the means and methods
of this summary meet ng out o: justice
it seems that some time between the hours
of three and four o'clock yesterday morning
a party of men, it is thought about
twenty five in all, visited the jail, and
without noise
of warming
or note
deliberately kicked in the door leading to
the jailer's room and entered In the room
sleeping were the jailer, John Sanders,
and a friend, Jim Brownell. Awakened
by the forced entrance, they were at once
covered by three revolvers in the hands of
as many men, and were commanded to de
liver up the keys to the jail. Resistance
would have been futile, and Sanders complied
with the cmomand. Leaving three
men to guard Sanders and Brownell, and
to prevent an alarm from them, the rest
of the party repaired to the cell; and be
fore he could ever raise a shout bound and
gagged the fear- stricken Schamle. He
was taken quietly to a dilapidated remnant
of a traine building, of which only a
portion of the frame work remained standing
, the lower portion having been used
as a pig- sty. This place is near the
mountains, to the left of the jail, or near
the old Selac, or Summer's brewery. In
a moment a noose was fastened around
the victim's neck and the rope thrown
over a rafter. Placing the trembling object
on an empty hogshead, the rope was
drawn taut and fastened to the timber,
and then the hogshead was kicked from
under the doomed man. The fall was
short and his neck was not broken, and
instead of dying the miserable fellow
writhed and struggled in intense agony,
and until his head nearly severed from his
body by the rope, he strangled to death.
The vigilantes then returned to the jail,
and throwing the keys to the jailer, the
three men who had held him joined the
others and all'disappeared in the darkness
So quietly was it all done that not a per
son was disturbed, and the morning sun
rose on the terrible spectacle- the victim
of yengeance swinging in the deserted pen
the blackened, disfigured face, with protruding
tongue and staring eyeballs turned
to the sky.
Crowds gathered to see the horrible
sight, and it was nine oclock before the
body was cut down and an inquest held,
the jury returning a verdict in accordance
with circumstantial evidence adduced.
Like a miner, we have no mor lizing to
indulge in. The victim was a self con
fessed murderer, and the act he commit
ted was a cowardly assassination that
deserved no mercy- was shown
none.- Denyer Tribune and.
