AND BLOODSHED
DAY OF RIOT
AND NEGROES FIGHT BETWEEN
WHITES IN NORTH CAROLINA.
and Negrock Killed Eight Were
Three Whites Seriously Injured
Pub- War Race- Result a of as a
House Negro News- lishing of a
Building the and Wrecked paper
Fired- New City Government Re-
storing Order- Military Called Out
Sworn in- Policemen Special and
No Further Trouble Anticipated.
Wilmington, N. C., Nov. 12.- After a
day of bloodshed and turbulence Wil-
mington has subsided into comparative
peacefulness. Eight negroes were
killed and three white men wounded
during the day, one of them, William
Mayo, scriously. The city is now in
the hands of a new municipal government
and law and order is being established
. The first act of the new government
was to swear in 250 specia!
policemen, chosen from the ranks of
the white citizens. Further trouble of
a general or serious nature is not expected
. The trouble commenced at 8:30
yesterday morning armed
when an
body of citizens numbering about 400,
and led by Representative Waddell,
chairman of the committee of twenty-
five, proceeded to the publishing house
of a negro newspaper, the Record, to
wreck it. The editor of this paper had
published an article defamatory to
white women, and a mass meeting of
citizens ordered his expulsion from the
city within twenty- four hours and the
removal of his press. Fifteen leading
negroes were called in by the committee
of twenty- five and directed to notify
the chairman by 7:30 yesterday
morning whether they would agree to
the removal of the press. They were
informed that if no answer returned
the press would be demolished was.
No answer was received by the chairman
, and after waiting an hour the
citizens proceeded in a body and de-
melished the fixtures of the printing
office. The building was also fired and
gutted. The leaders say that this action
was the work of irresponsible persons
, and as soon as the fire was discovered
the fire department was called
to extinguish it. The burning of the
printing office created a great commotion
among the negroes of the town.
The rumor spread that the whites
were going to burn and murder in the
negro quarter. This rumor reached
the negro employes of a cotton compress
pubering 300 or 400, who quit
work and hung about the streets in
manifest terror. Other parties congregated
in the negro section and it was
in one of that the first tragedy
was enacted these. The men were ordered
to disperse. They declined, and it is
claimed, fired into the whites, who returned
the attack. Three negroes were
killed and two white men were wound-
During the afternoon
ed slightly.
there were other affairs of this kind
eight negroes were killed in the
and disturbed sections.
