gress to advise him, but for him to advise
congress; and when he has fearlessly
done so, it will be up to the members
of the national legislature to show
where they stand on his proposals.
An American Interpreter.
In the death of Frederic Remington
the country loses one of its most faithful
interpreters of its native characteristics
, for the Remington types were an
international currency of American
mintage. His stories of western life
were the voice of experience and added
the latest touch of conditions on the
plains and in the hills to Mark Twain's
" Roughing It" and Roosevelt's outdoor
narratives.
But it was by his cowboy and In-
dian pictures that he will be best remembered
, for it was these which
gained the widest circulation, at home
and abroad, depicting as they did with
infinite fidelity and felicity, the actual
scenes of American frontier and ranch
conditions, so rapidly vanished. His
redskins, his plainsmen, his horses, afford
a faithful panorama in graphic
outline and vivid color of the vigorous
and full- blooded west ere the big cities
crowded into the new country and the
telephone and automobile covered the
land.
The Cuban war afforded him scope
in another field, giving the world his
famous statuettes of" The Broncho
Buster" and" The Wounded Bunkie,"
either of which would have made him a
celebrity; but beside his later work his
early pictures recording the retreat of
the old conditions before the civilization
of today, stand unrivaled.
The Garbage Question.
The city council should be very careful
in dealing with the garbage question
. At best, any ordinance it may
adopt or any contract it may enter into
will be merely a temporary expedient.
The experience of Omaha with the garbage
question from the beginning until
the present has been most unfortunate.
One experiment after an other has followed
in futile effort to discover some
plan whereby household refuse may be
gathered and disposed of without placing
the charge directly on the city government
. Ordinance after ordinance
has been enacted, contract after contract
entered into, suit after suit
pushed through the courts, and always
has the question come around to the
starting point. Nothing has been discovered
that will relieve the city of the
responsibility or the householder of the
inconvenience that grows out of any
attempt that has been made to substitute
for the natural plan some makeshift
method of collecting and disposing
of garbage. Until the matter is
taken over by the city and properly
controlled under supervision of the
health department the question will be
open always for discussion and the annoyances
and inconveniences will continue
.
The ordinance at present before the
council is, perhaps, the best that can
be had in the present emergency, but
it does not meet the requirements of
the situation. Its adoption may relieve
existing conditions, but it is only
a matter of time when something will
arise which will overturn the new plan
and make it necessary to adopt another.
For this reason steps should be taken
to the end that before this disturbance
arises plans will have been matured for
placing the entire garbage question beyond
the realm of uncertainty. This
can only be done by putting it entirely
upon the city government.
Those who shake their heads sagely
at Russia, Mexico and other" benighted
barbarous" lands
and may have over-
was
fact that the
the
in
looked
it
United States of America and within
sometimes
the borders of the state
called" The Mother of Presidents,"
that a mob lynched a man on merry
Christmas eve. This was a fitting
event to crown an unprecedented
season of these violent interferences
with the law, despite the incarceration
of a sheriff at the instance of the supreme
court, for permitting a prisoner
to be taken from him, a lesson that appears
to have passed unheeded. Wholesome
respect for the law and obedience
thereto is absolutely necessary if this
government is to become a model for
the nations.
The Lincoln Traction company is doing
much to prevent stagnation in the
public mind at the capital elty It may
not be fulfilling its perfect mission, but
the small service it affords as a topic
for calorific discussion in the cold
weather should certainly commend it
to the people suffering through its
shortcomings.
Republic. 8 in Iowa are getting
closer together because they have discovered
that the result of their internal
division is the election of democrats
to office by republican votes. The
same thing is true in Nebraska, and
the lesson of the present state admin-
istration is one that should be always
in mind.
A Saskatchewan farmer dropped
into an American city a few days ago
with$ 100,000 in his jeans. When he
left for home he still had his jeans
but in all other respects the annexation,
