WHITE MEN SLAIN TO PROTECT LIFE OF NEGRO, JIM BROWN
Pitched Battle Between St. Clair County
Mob and a of Sheriff North's
Deputies at Posse Ashville Gourt House
ONE DEAD; ONE FATALLY SHOT
Ifter Volley of Shots Were Fired Into
the Barricaded Court Room the
Negro Was Spirited Away
and is in Jail Here
BY SEWELL HAGGARD.
Ashville, St. Clair County, August 22 .-( Special.)- One man was killed
and another probably fatally wounded in a battle here today to save the
negro, Jim Brown, from the vengeance of a mob after he had been tried
and sentenced to hang on September 20 for the most heinous crime known
in the criminal law of any State. Tine killed:
WALTER BLANKENSHIP, shot through the head, the ball penetrating
the skull one inch above the right ear.
The wounded:
ARTHUR BLANKENSHIP, breast and abdomen penetrated by bird
shot, eye put out.
A small boy, the son of James Hanley, slightly wounded about the face
with birdshot.
The Blankenships are brothers, and it is said have been in town since
Monday trying to stir up trouble. Walter died within two hours after being
shot, and Arthur is in a precarious condition.
The attempt of the mob to gain possession of the negro followed one of
the swiftest and fairest trials ever held. It was a battle of wits, with the
judge and the court officials on the defensive to suppress the fast- rising
anger of the crowd as detail after detail of the fiend's dastardly work was
told by witnesses for the State. There was no evidence for the defense.
As the doomed brute said afterwards in his confession, there was nothing
the witnesses he had summoned could say in his behalf.
TRIAL LASTED TWO HOURS.
The trial consumed two hours and twenty minutes. The defense did
not object to a juror, the State only objected to three. Both sides submitted
the case without argument, and the jury was eleven minutes reaching a
conclusion. The evidence was conclusive. Not only did Miss Garrett
identify the negro, but every circumstance pointed to his guilt.
Jim Brown can return thanks to Judge John Pelham, Sheriff J. L.
North and his loyal band of deputies for preventing the mob from lynchIng
him, and his fate might have been worse. Threats of burning and other
horrible torture were made. The officers promised to protect him, and
their oaths. When
make good cour
they placed their lives in jeopardy to
age seemed unavailing against unequal odds strategy was resorted to and
the negro was actually escorted across the public square of Ashville guarded
by only two men. They were former Sheriff D. A. Treece and W. A.
Starm, an attorney of Coal City. They carried Brown through the woods
on foot and flagged a freight and rode half way to Birmingham in a flat
car.
When word was brought from the court house to Judge Pelham that
some of the deputies were wavering, he walked boldly across the square
and up the steps of the building in full view of the crowd. Calling the men
around him he asked if they meant to protect the prisoner.
" It is a question of whether you will preserve the honor of St. Clair
O County for law and order," said he." Let us take a vote on the question.
man who is for law and order hold up your right hand."
Every Every hand was uplifted.
WHEN THE CLASH CAME.
The clash came in half an hour after Judge Pelham had pronounced
the death sentence. By a ruse the court room was cleared of half its occupants
. The remaining half was surly and seemed bent on mischief. At
the request of Judge Pelham, J. L. Garrett, father of the girl so brutally
spoke counselling peace. He
outraged by Brown, mounted a table and,
had hardly addressed the assembly as his friends and neighbors before he
broke down in tears. In concluding his appeal, he said:
" If you have any respect for my feelings, if I can have any weight in
your hearts, let me urge you as good citizens to go home and obey the
law, and I will never cease thanking you from the bottom of my heart from
this day to the day of my death."
After some difficulty the court room was then cleared. Sheriff North
thought it unwise to attempt to take Brown to the jail, a few blocks away,
for the crowd was rapidly reforming around the front of the court house.
Twenty- eight deputies armed with pistols and shotguns were stationed in
the front hall and at the windows of the court room. The first sign of an
outbreak came when one man from the outside, with pistol in hand,
started to mount the stairway. He was followed by two or three others.
Several shots were exchanged and the mob leaders retreated to the outside,
when two members began firing into the windows. Arthur Blankenship
hit first, and his brother was shot while emptying his revolver in the
was direction of the windows above.
RAIN CAME AS BLESSING.
A hard rain began falling. The bodies of the wounded were removed,
and the crowd scattered about in front of the stores across the street. The
officers took advantage of this lull and spirited the negro away in charge
of two special deputies. He was gotten safely aboard a freight train for
Birmingham.
CITIZENS CONDEMN MOB.
When the curtain arose on the stage- setting at Ashville this morning
no such trouble was foreboded. Leading citizens said that the law should
take its course and were confident that their advice would be heeded. They
did everything to prevent the disturbance and were much hurt at the unfortunate
trick a few hot- headed men had played them.
When the frenzy of the mob was most intense speeches were made by
the Rev. Mr. Emerson and a gentleman named Compton. They counselled
conservatism, but it was like throwing a few crumbs to a nungry multitude.
It only whetted their appetites. Mr. Compton attempted to start up an
auction sale to divert attention, but the mob would not even nibble at the
bait. They yelled for Sheriff North.
" Will you hang the nigger here?" one yelled.
" Yes."
" Will you.let us all see it?"
" Yes."
" Will you run away to Birmingham with him?"
No answer.
Question after question was put to Brown while he was on the freight
train en route to Birmingham In an effort to make him confess. He
steadily denied his guilt and read a newspaper some one had given him.
At Springville he was made to stand up several times so women could see
him. He obeyed several times, but finally said he would do so no more.
As the train rolled out of Springville several negroes who were clinging
to the side of the car said:" Good- bye, old nigger; we'll never see you any
smiled.
more." Brown
NEGRO CONFESSES GUILT.
After the train passed Springvile he seemed more at ease. He was
asked if he would make any effort to get a new trial.
I will only try to get converted," he replied.
" Another effort was made to draw a confession from him. He asked
what would be given him if he would tell all about the crime. One dollar
and five cents was raised in the crowd, and then he made the following
statement, as nearly as can be quoted:
" I intended to tell you all about it without the money. I was joking
about that. It is all over now, and I will be hanged. I am guilty of the
crime. They all swore the truth( meaning witnesses for the State). I
don't know what was the matter with me that day. I must have been
crazy. Any man who will commit such a crime ought to be hun. I watched
the young lady as she passed the cornfield where I was working and followed
her. I hope to make my peace with God."
Brown is an intelligent negro. He can read and write and showed considerable
shrewdness in evading the questions put to him. When he did
break down he confirmed every detail of the outrage as related by Miss
Garrett.
BROWN'S HEINOUS CRIME.
The crime for which Brown will hang was committed on May 7 near
Springville, within a quarter of a mile of the home of the Garretts. He was
working in a field near where Miss Garrett, who is a school teacher, had
to pass in returning home late in the afternoon. He followed her for some
distance and finally assaulted her near a creek. After accomplishing his
purpose he dragged the girl into the water, threatening to drown her.
Abandoning this last thought of ending his hideous crime by murder he
pulled off his clothing and put on another suit in the presence of the young
lady, throwing his shoes into the water. He was with her for three- quarters
of an hour. Miss Garrett remained unconscious for some time and
then made her way to the house and gave the alarm.
Brown left the vicinity. at once, first going to Birmingham, then to An
niston, Atlanta, and finally to Charleston, S. C., wnere ne was captured.
In the meantime another negro had been shot to death because he was mistaken
for Brown. The real Brown attempted suicide by cutting his throat
a piece of glass shortly after his capture.
with He will remain in the Birmingham jail till the day of his execution.
