The Chicago Tribune's record of
hangings and lynchings for 1901 as
usual is food for criminologists.
says: It
The dark records of hanging and
lynching are made up for the year 1901.
The former shows a gleam of encouragement
. The latter, in some respects.
is distinctly discouraging. There were
118 legal executions during the year,
during 1900.
one less than those Of
those executed, seventy- one were ne-
groes and forty- seven whites. The
crimes which led up to these executions
were as follows: Murder, 107; criminal
assault, nine; attempted criminal assault
, one; train robbery, one. In 1900
only five were hanged for criminal assault
. This increase in executions for
criminal assault would apparently indicate
that this crime, which is falsely
assigned as" the customary crime" in
the south, is coming more and more to
be punished by the law instead of by
the mob, but the increase of lynching
for the makes it difficult to determine
this year with absolute correctness.
The lynchings for the year number
135, as compared with 115 in 1900, an
increase of twenty. Of these, 121 oc-
curred in the south and fourteen in the
north, as compared with 107 in the
south and eight in the north in 1900, an
increase which is not creditable to the
five northern states, California, Idaho.
Montana, Kansas and Indiana. The
number of negroes lynched in 1901 was
107, the same number as in 1900. Besides
these, one Indian and one China-
man were victims. Curiously enough,
the principal crimes which led to these
lynchings are almost the same in the
two years, being thirty- nine for murder
in 1901 and thirty- nine for murder
in 1900; nineteen for criminal assault in
1901 and eighteen for criminal assault
in 1900. The six southern states which
have the largest number of mob murders
are: Mississippi, sixteen: Louisi-
ana, fifteen; Alabama, fifteen; Georgia,
fourteen; Tennessee, twelve; Texas,
eleven. Three of these states, however,
show improvment, Mississippi having
four, Louisiana five and Georgia two
less than last year; but Alabama has
increased seven; Tennessee, five; and
Texas, seven. Discouraging as the figures
appear, there are many causes at
work in the south which promise improvement
It is not encouraging that
.
the number of lynchings in the
should have increased as much. north
