UNCLE SAM WILL
NOW TAKE A HAND
Federal Authorities May Take
Up Huntsville Lynching
STATE OFFICIALS ARE BUSY
Matter Will Be Thoroughly Sifted and
Blame Placed Where It Belongs.
News of the Capital
City.
BY HERVEY W. LAIRD.
Montgomery, September 14 .-( Special.)-
Acting Governor Cunningham wired Capt.
R. L. Hay of the Huntsville military company
yesterday afternoon, asking if he
had received a request from the executive
office to report on his connection with
the effort to keep a mob from lynching
Horace Maples at Huntsville last week
and if he had replied to the same.
Captain Hay telegraphed back that his
The
report would be sent in at once.
length of time elapsing after the request
of the governor for a statement
from Captain Hay had been remarked upon
on the outside, though it was not
known until today that the governor had
taken official notice of it.
Captain Hay was in command of the
soldiers called out at Huntsville to assist
Sheriff Rogers in the protection of Maples
, and he and his men were under
the orders of the sheriff. The day after
the lynching the go rnor wrote Sheriff
Rogers and Captain Hay to give him at
once a detailed satement of everything
that occurred an indicate why they
had not been able to protect the prisoner
. Sheriff Rogers answered some days
ago, though the governor has not seen fit
to divulge the contents of his letter.
It has also been very manifest within
the past two or three days that the federal
authorities are going to take a hand
in the attempt to punish the members of
the mob who lynched Maples. It is reliably
reported and has been so printed in
the papers that the matter will be presented
to the grand jury which assembles
in October and t it is not at all improbable
that United States secret service
men will be assigne to duty on
case. the
Something Will Be Doing.
It is a well authenticated fact that
something of much more importance than
has ever been brought to pass as the result
of a lynching in Alabama, is coming
from the Huntsville affair. The fact that
Governor Cunningham has already begun
and is pushing the investigation so far
as his office is concerned, is no secret.
It is also an open secret that officials of
the United States are casting about to
see just where they can take hold and
bring the power of Uncle Sam to bear in
the of the
location and punishment
guilty.
Judge Speake of the state court has
called and has in session a special meeting
of the state grand jury, and, with
Solicitor Pettus, is busy trying to get information
on which to predicate indictments
, all going to prove that no part of
the machinery of justice is allowed to
lie idle in
the
this movement to rid
state of the stain of the unlawful taking
of human life.
The fact that the governor urged Captain
Hay to hurry his report, for his telegram
amounted to that, indicates how
vigorously he has determined to act. He
will see that everything in his power is
exercised to secure names of men in the
mob and their conviction when discovered
.
United States' Part.
It is expected that the United States
officials will proceed on the supposition
that the action of the mob was in violation
of section 5508 of the revised statutes
of the United States, which make it a
penalty to form a conspiracy against any
citizen of the United States, and provides
further for the punishment of any who
may, by conspiracy, cause the injury of
a citizen of the United States, though
they may not have intended to inflict
such injury.
In the case of Logan vs. The United
States, from the northern district of
Texas, the supreme court of the United
States( 144 Rpt. U. S. S. C.) held that
any citizen in the custody of an officer
of the government had a right to the protection
of the United States, and any
who offered or did him injury while in
such custody was liable to heavy punishment
; also that such action was in violation
of section 5508 above mentioned.
The supposition is that the United Staes
attorney, the Hon. Thomas R. Roulhac
of Sheffield will take the matter up
and see that it is properly presented to
the United States grand jury at its Oc-
tober sitting. It is also thought that, in
anticipation of this investigation, it would
not be an overstepping of the rules of
the secret service to have a few detectives
in the state getting up evidence and
locating those who are likely be
classed as offenders. to
Power of Governor.
The powers of the state executive are
limited in cases of this kind to the punishment
of officials who may have been
false to their duties. He can, if he thinks
the circumstances justify, cause impeach-
n.ent proceedings before the supreme
court to be filed against the sheriff of
any county. It is also within his power
to order the courtmartial of any member
of the citizen soldiery who fails in
his duty. Beyond this he can go no further
than to advise with the officials of
the judicial system, and others who may
have, by virtue of the statute, power to
punish those who violate any of the laws
of the state.
In following out these regulations the
governor at once ordered Sheriff Rogers
and Captain Hay to report all they knew
of the lynching. They were to give in
detail all that was of importance, and
to ascertain, in the case of the sheriff, if
possible, names of members of the mob.
In addition to this the governor wrote
Judge Speake that he hoped he would
proceed as vigorously as possibly in the
investigation of the mob and suggested
that he call a special session of the
grand jury. Judge Speake, feeling the
greatest interest in the maintenance of
order in his circuit, had determined to
call this session and before the letter of
the governor had gotten to Birmingham
cn its way to Huntsville, he called upon
the' phone the executive office here to
ask advice about it. The governor has
expressed the fullest confidence in both
Judge Speake and Solicitor Pettus and
will support them in every way possible.
Governor Determined.
The writer saw the governor in his office
this morning and asked about his
intentions regarding the Huntsville investigation
. He replied that he was not yet
ready to give them to the press, further
than to say that he will do everything
the laws give him power to do to have
the whole matter sifted to the bottom
and those who are guilty of the crime of
murdering Horcae Maples will have to
suffer for it if he can bring it about.
He is waiting the report of Captain
Hay, who commanded the militia,
he undertakes to decide definitely on before his
course of action. He has a letter from
Sheriff Rogers which he will not make
public, in which that official gives his
side of the trouble. The greatest secrecy
has been maintained as to what it
contains.
" You may say," concluded the governor
at the close of the conversation," that I
am doing everything I can do to bring the
violators of the law to justice. I am not
well enough posted on the situation at
Huntsville to give any indication of my
intentions save in this general way. As
soon as I receive all the reports requested
I will decide what I am to do in the matter
. Of this I am sure- there will be nothing
left undone to make the investigation
thorough."
Some Side Lights.
The most prominent United States prisoner
in the jail at Huntsville at the time
the mob took Horace Maples out, was L.
E. Huffman, who shot and killed, on Jan-
uary 11, 1902, United States Deputy Marshal
J. D. Holsenback near Boaz, on Sand
Mountain. Huntsville people say he was
badly frightened and almost overcome by
the effect of the smoke.
This is the second time a mob at Hunts-
ville has used fire to get into the jail.
Once while Sheriff Fulgham was in office
the same plans were adopted, and the
sheriff only gave way when his life was
about to be taken, and then when dragged
out by his friends.
Way back twenty- five years ago a
Huntsville mob hung two negroes and a
white man in the middle of the day, and
while United States court was in session.
It was regarded as the most carefully and
successfully carried out piece of execution
ever known in the mob annals of the
country.
It may not be amiss to recall, simply as
a matter of history, that the commander
of the Third regiment, Alabama National
Guard, recommended a few weeks ago
that the Huntsville company, with those
at Decatur and Jasper, be mustered cut
of service because of inefficiency and they
only remained because on the showing of
officers that they would do everything
possible to bring them up to regimental
standard, the governor agreed to give
them ninety days to become what
should be in a military way. they
Better River Facilities.
At a meeting of the committee on
state development of the Montgomery
Commercial and Industrial
association
last night it was decided to make an effort
to secure additional appropriations
for the Alabaria river to secure for it
a channe: seven eet dep and 150 feet
wide, it being considered that this is
necessary to accommodate the traffic that
should be had between this city and Mobile
. Congressman A. A. Wiley was
present and gave assurance of support
to the movement.
It was pointed out that with the present
channel it is almost impossible to
travel the river with but light
any
draught boats much of the year. It
is expected that the matter will be
brought to the attention of the Rivers
and Harbors comm.tee of the lower
house of congress and a plea made that
the river is so nearly adequate for heavy
traffic that it is wrong to let it remain
as it is. Seima and Mobile citizens
will be asked to take part in the effort to
get the appropriation and residents all
along the river to the gulf will also be
interested.
Candee Killing.
A report comes from Monroe county
that the killing of M. G. Candee near
Choctaw Bluff, in at county, last week
is likely to cause a great deal of trouble.
The coroner's jury did not place the
crime on any one, but recommended that
the evidence taken be given to the grand
jury and that the solicitor be urged to
follow it up.
During the sitting of the coroner's jury
scores of citizens gathered and threats of
lynching were heard it were definitely
settled who had done the deed. Mr. Can-
dee was killed by his own gun, the bullets
being the same as those in the bar-
rel found loaded. He slept in his barn the
night of the murder and was found there
dead. It was also found that the books
of Mr. Candee's mercantile business were
burned. It was at first thought that C.
F. Pitcher, a former partner of Candee.
had done the killing, as he and the dead
man had had trouble, but he proved that
was not in the community and could
he not have fired the fatal shot.
