OVER THE WIRES.
THE NEWS OF THE WORLD AS TOLD
BY TELEGRAPH.
Important Happenings of the Past Week
in the United States as Well as in Foreign
Countries, Etc.
Knoxville, Tenn., February 26.- Joseph
Payne, a negro was lynched at Jellico, Tenn.,
tonight for assaulting a white girl named
Nannie Cecil. The lynching
was a quiet
affair, about fifty men composing the mob.
The negro confessed and asked for time to
pray.
Earthquake in California.
San Francisco, Cal., February 23.- An
earthquake shock was felt at Sacramento
and several places in Solano county last
night. At Dixon the people rushed pellmell
from their houses. No serious damage
was done.
Bloody Riot Provked by Taunt.
Lina, O., February 19.- A riot took place
yesterday at noon at Mark Center between
teamsters and laborers Some one made a
disparaging remark about immigration. This
made Jacob Fobleia angry, and getting an ax
he started to clean cut the house. This began
the fight and for fully an hour it continued.
Fifty men took part in the blocdy affair, and
it is reported that several were killed and some
were seriously injured and are lying in a critical
condition Pobleitz has fled.
Due to a Maniac with Matches.
Dover, N. H., February 19.- The coroner's
jury in the inquest into the cause of the fire
which destroyed the Stafford county insane
asylum and caused the loss of forty- one lives
submitted their verdict to the clerk of the
court here today. They find that the French
woman, Mrs. La Fountaine, in some way obtained
a match, and in her disordered state of
mind set fire to her bed or chair cushion.
It also appears that, whatever may have been
the immediate cause of the fire, each one connected
with the institution did all within his
or her power to prevent it.
Bank Robbers Ahwarted.
Pittsburg, Penn., February 22.- Late
this evening four masked men boldly attempted
to rob the city bank in Leechburg,
Pa., thirty miles from Pittsburg, on the
West Pennsylvania railroad. They were
discovered before they could accomplish
their designa nd one of the robbers was arrested
. The other three escaped after a
dsperate encountr with th police officers.
During the fight one of the robbers shot
and almost instantly killed William Schaef-
er, chief of police of the town. A description
of the robbers has been telegraphed to
all the surrounding towns and a posse is in
hot pursuit, tracking the fugitives in the
snow.
His Life Saved.
Louisville, February 19 .-- Last fall Bert
Wing, a well known sporting man of this city,
killed his wife in a house of ill- fame. She
was the daughter of Judge Eaves, a prominent
jurist and respected citizen of Greenville,
Ky. Wing was put on trial charged with
murder, and pleaded guilty. Eaves
arose and said: Judge
JOHN W. MACKAY SHOT.
Man He Did Not Know Shoots Him Down
and Then Attempts Suicide.
San Francisco, February 24.- John W.
beinMackay, the many times millionaire, mining
and financial backer of the Postal
Telegraph and Commercial Cable Company,
shot in the back
today and badly
Alasounded. The assailant then shot him-
in the breast and is reported dying in
hospital.
Mr. Mackay's wound is not thought to
dangerous. The assassin's name is
woufariously stated as Ratcliffe, Lynch and
. The latest version is Dunn. All
accounts agree that he is old, close on to
aseventy years.
Mr. Mackay took his new situation with
Idacharacteristic
coolness. He quietly an-
to the crowd that assembled.at
sound of the shooting that he was shot
awaited the coming of a doctor. The
has been extracted.
Mackay knows nothing about his as-
; he did not recognize him.
name of the man who attempted to
John Mackay is W. C. Rippey. He
undoubtedly insane. He had in his
a letter addressed to a morning pain
which the writer stated that he was
eventy- three years of age. It was signed
C. Rippey.' There was also
upon
an envelope bearing the name of Dr.
L. Lincoln. On the back of the en-
were the words:" The end is not
Upon a sheet of paper under the
" Food for Reflection" were the
:" Paid$ 150,000 for one sapphire, to
on the forehead of his wife- a suffi-
amount to have saved at least five
of his victims from suicidal graves.
think of it. Inscribe it upon
. his
