TENNESSEE MOB
LYNCHES NEGRO
Railroad Men Avenge the
Death of Comrade
TWO OTHERS ARE HURT
None of the Members of the Mob
Wear Masks- Negroes Attacked
Way to Jail- Further
on Violence Is Feared
Shelbyville, Tenn., February 19.- Armed
with clubs and revolvers, a mob of 18 or
20' white men, all of them said to be citizens
of Nashville and employes of the
Nashville, Chattanooga and St. Louis
railway, shot and killed Wat Greer, dangerously
wounded Dave Neal and badly
beat up Green Bomar, negroes, here today
. The victims are charged with the
murder of S. W. Everson, special officer
of the Nashville, Chattanooga and St.
Louis railway, which occurred on a train
near Bell Buckle Saturday afternoon Feb-
ruary 10.
Neal and Bomar are now in jail here
and it is reported the mob will endeavor
to get possession of them and complete
its work tonight.
Are Unmasked
None of the members of the mob wore
masks. They attended the preliminary
trial of the negroes, which was conducted
at the courthouse by Magistrate James P.
Brantley, who bound the defendants over
to court. The negroes were attacked by
the mob as they were being taken to jail
after the trial, about 2 o'clock. They were
in the custody of Sheriff Williams and six
deputies and were going down the steps
of the courthouse when the mob attacked
them. Greer was shot in the stomach and
killed on the steps.' Neal and Bomar
were beaten up, the former being seriously
wounded.
ne-
The officers rushed the wounded
groes into the sheriff's office, the door of
which was locked and the sheriff stationed
himself on guard at the entrance.
About 4:15 o'clock the mob returned, over-
powered the sheriff and removed him from
the building. A man, alleged to be a
brother of Everson, then broke into the
office and fired once at each of the ne-
groes. Neal was shot in the abdomen
and seriously hurt, the bullet lodging in
a glove in his pocket. Subsequently the
wounded were taken from the
sheriff's office negroes to the jail.
Anderson Not Molested
Marion Anderson, alleged assassin of
Policemen Purdy and Henry of Shelby-
ville, who was confined in the same jail
with the negroes, was taken to Nashville
yesterday for safekeeping, it being apprehended
evidently that an effort might
be made to lynch him, but the mob which
operated here today, it is believed, was
solely bent on avenging the murder of a
fellow employe.
The negroes who were the victims of
mob violence were accused of throwing S.
W. Everson of Nashville from a trainings
which was running at the rate of about
55 miles an hour on the afternoon of Feb-
ruary 10. The trouble started in a" Jim
Crow" car.
Upon the request of Sheriff Williams
for state troops to preserve order Governor
Hooper ordered a company of militia
to the scene but countermanded the order
on receiving a message from Sheriff
Williams that the mob had dispersed and
quiet had been restored. The governor
immediately offered a reward of$ 500 each
for the mob leaders, the total reward not
to exceed$ 5000.
Shelbyville Quiet
Nashville, February 19.- Dispatches received
from Shelbyville at midnight state
that it was quiet there then and no fear
was felt that an attempt would be made
soon to kill the two negroes who are
still alive.
Neal was badly shot in the head and
doctors say he has about equal chance
for recovery. Bomar is apparently not
seriously injured, but is raving mad from
fright.
Later dispatches indicate that there were
about 70 men who led the mod and nearly
all of them are said to have been railroad
men from Birmingham, Atlanta and
Nashville. They scattered after the tragedy
, part of them coming to Nashville
and part going to the other cities. No
have been made up to date. It
arrests( CONTINUED ON PAGE 9)
Ray.
Tennessee mob lynches negro,
