Scottsburg Lynching.
SCOTTSBURG, Ind., Dec. 24- Marion
Tyler was taken from the county jail here
this morning between 1 and 2 o'clock by a
masked mob and hanged to a tree in the
courthouse yard. Tyler was in jail awaiting
trial for shooting his wife, Nov. 3. He shot
her twice and shot himself twice, but both
had recovered sufficiently to be up.
The sentiment of the people is divided,
with a majority condemning the mob's ae-
tion. There is, of course, no clew to the
identity of any member of the mob. Tyler's
trial was set for Jan. 13.
A few minutes after 1 o'clock Sheriff Jas.
F. Gobin heard a knock at the door of his
residence, and, being used to calls at all
hours, went to the door in his night clothes.
Three masked men with drawn revolvers
thrust the door open and grabbed him, and
four others with double- barrel shotguns
rushed in. A member of the mob said they
wanted Tyler and demanded the keys to the
jail, but the sheriff refused. By this time
the bedroom was crowded with masked men
and the mob's leader leveled a revolver at
the sheriff and demanded the keys in a hurry
. The sheriff said he would die first, but
his frightened wife told the mob where to
find them. After obtaining the keys several
members of the mob went to the room of
Deputy Sheriff Cal Gobin and with drawn
revolvers compelled him to dress and come
down stairs. Both the sheriff and his deputy
were ordered to lead the way and unlock
the jail and cell occupied by Tyler. Both
refused, and the members of the family were
placed in one room and guarded while the
mob proceeded to the jail. The lynchers
seemed to understand just where to go.
They entered the upper room of the jail,
lighted a lamp in the corridor and placed
guards on the outside of the cell in which
Tyler and an old man were confined. The
cell door was unlocked and two members of
the mob entered, going direct to Tyler's
bed They bound his feet and tied his hands
behind him. Then another stood by the
lighted lamp and tied a hangman's noose at
This
the end of a half- inch manila rope.
was placed over Tyler's neck, and a man
took hold of him on each side and he was
dragged from the jail to the street below.
On reaching the street Tyler was heard to
say:" Oh, my God, kill me here!"
He was told to keep quiet, and, if he said
anything else during the whole performance
, the other inmates of the jail or members
of the sheriff's family failed to hear it.
The mob took Tyler to the courthouse yard,
The men were
two hundred yards away.
drilled and answered to numbers instead of
by name. On reaching the courtyard the
mob selected a convenient limb on a shade
tree, and over this the end of the rope was
thrown. Tyler was placed on an old door
and held up while the end of the rope was
tightly fastened. Then the door was allowed
to fall, and Tyler dropped to death by
strangulation, with his feet about eighteen
inches from the ground.
Their work being completed, the mob
marched out the courtyard to the street and
disappeared. All this was done so quickly
that the town not
and so quietly was
aroused. As soon as the guards were out
of sight Sheriff Gobin came from his residence
, but he could find no trace of the
lynchers. From whence they came or where
they went is a mystery. Besides the sheriff's
family and the old man who occupied the
cell with Tyler, only one man has been
found who saw them. This was a young
man who returned from the country with a
horse which he put in a livery stable. On
coming from the stable to go to nis hotel
he was halted by three men with drawn
revolvers. He was ordered to sit down in
front of the livery stable and keep quiet.
He remained across the street from the jail.
He says those who went into the jail wore
long dark masks, but the men who guarded
him wore no masks that he could discern.
After the mob left the courtyard this young
man was ordered to go into the stable and
remain there half an hour under penalty of
being shot. He went into the stable, but
came out as Sheriff Gobin was passing. The
coroner was at once notified, and shortly
before 3 o'clock the lifeless body was cut
down and taken to an undertaker's establishment
. His parents at McLeansboro, Ill.,
were notified, and the body will be sent
there.
All thoughts of mob violence had. apparently
passed from the minds of the people
of this locality soon after the shooting
last November, and the lynching was a surprise
. The people of this county greatly deplore
and feel deeply the disgrace that has
been brought on the community by this act
of an unknown mob which is generally supposed
to have been organized outside of this
county.
This is the first hanging that ever took
place within the borders of this county.
SEYMOUR, Ind., Dec. 24.- A correspondent
here who visited the scene of the Scotts-
burg lynching says the men who hanged
Tyler were evidently experts, for the knot
was tied in" true hangman's style," and
everything gave evidence of careful preparation
. He also says:" It is thought the
citizens of Scottsburg had been quietly organizing
for several weeks, and that the
matter was purposely held off until this late
day in order that the avenging of the crime
might stand out more boldly and pronounced
than if done immediately after the crime.
George Harris, who is held awaiting another
trial, heard the noise and was badly scared,
fearing he was to be the victim."
The correspondent gives the name of the
man who was stopped by the mob as
Carlyle, of Little York. John
