A Forcible Suggestion.
[ Springfield( Mass.) Republican.]
The Savannah( Ga.) News has made a sensible
suggestion anent lynchings in the South.
It thinks if they are to be continued they
would better be legalized at once, all laws forbidding
them repealed and formal statutory
permission given to any crowd of leading citizens
anywhere to hang anybody who, in their
opinion, no matter how hastily formed, deserve
hanging.
It will be practically impossible for any defender
of lynch law to answer the suggestion.
The argument behind it is convincing. If it be
true that public sentiment in the South approves
the lynching of assailants of women, it
is absurd to have laws on statute books for
bidding it. Such laws are openly and defiantly
disobeyed and treated with contempt by the
officers of the state who are sworn to execute
them. It is only a ridiculous farce to keep
them on the statute books. It is more than
this, for their open defiance brings all law into
disrespect and encourages the belief that any
law can be violated with impunity. These
southern newspapers which defend and justify
lynch law should be consistent,
If lynching is justifiable under any circumstances
or for and offense, it is unjust and unfair
that the laws should directly or impliedly
forbid it. There is no escaping this conclusion
. If, on the other hand, lynching is a
erime, by whomsover done under whatsoever
circumstances; or if it be a crime under any circumstances
, the laws against murder and manslaughter
properly apply to it and should
be enforeed against it. In such case no self-
respecting leader of public opinion has any
right to do anything but condemn it in season
and out of season. There is no escaping this
alternative save by remarkable agility in dodging
. The self- respecting course for the people
of South Carolins, for instance, where the majority
seem to approve lynchings- the governor
says he does under certain circumstances, and
one of the senators gives them the sanetion of
his presence- would seem to be to act on the
suggestion of the and give mob law legal
sanction, News
