THE PEOPLE RISE
Outraged Justice Throws
Aside the Law.
HENNESSY IS AVENGED WELL
Wrath.
New Orleans Strong In Her
THE ITALIAN MURDERERS SLAIN
Thousands of Citizens Join Hands to
Rebuke Unpunished Crime- Eleven of
the Assassins of the Crescent City's
Chief of Police Are Given Their Merited
Fate Prisoners Shot Down in
Their Cells- Police Powerless and the
Military Not at Hand- General Approval
of the Course of the Mob- History
of the Case.-
NEW ORLEANS, March 14.- New Or-
leans struck the Mafia a death blow
today.
It rose in its might, almost at midday,
and wreaked a horrible vengeance upon
the Sicilian assassins who slew David
Hennessy. Eleven men are dead tonight
, who were happy yesterday over
their victory in the courts.
The work of blood was accomplished
without disorder and without pillage.
This was not an unruly midnight mob;
it was simply a sullen, determined body
of citizens, who took into their own
hands what justice had ignominiously
failed to do.
The Chief of Police was slain on
October 15, and that very night evidence
began to accumulate, showing that his
death had been deliberately planned by
a secret tribunal and carried out boldly
and successfully by tools of the conspirators
.
The trial lasted twenty- five days, and
though the evidence was conclusive the
jury showed evidences of having been
tampered with and failed to agree.
Last night a body of cool- headed men
lawyers, doctors, merchants and political
leaders- all persons of influence and
social standing, quietly met and decided
that some action must be taken, and
the people's justice, swift and sure, be
visited upon those whom the jury had
neglected to punish.
This morning a call for a mass meeting
at Clay Square, on Canal street, appeared
in the papers, which generally
editorially deprecated violence. The
significant closing sentence of the call
was," Come prepared for action."
Down in a large room on Bienville and
Royal streets there was an arsenal
guarded by a body of citizens.
The call was answered by the populace
. At 10 o'clock there was a crowd
of several thousand anxious people congregated
around the statue. They hardly
knew what was going to happen, but
they seemed ready to go to any length,
and while there were, of course, many
men of the lower element in the throng,
the large proportion were leading
people.
There were addresses short and pithy
and business- like and the assemblage
was soon worked up to the highest
pitch. Each of the speakers said there
had been a great mass meeting months
before, which had met quietly and dispersed
peacefully, so the law might take
its course. The law had failed, and the
time to act had come.
W. S. Parkerson, the leader, is a lawyer
and president of the Southern Athletic
Club, and the man who led the reform
movement three years ago. Wal-
ter D. Denegar, another of the speakers,
is one of the leaders of the New Or-
leans bar. John C. Wickliff, also a
prominent attorney, and James D.
Houston, one of the foremost men of
the State, also spoke.
After denouncing Detective O'Malley,
who is alleged to have tampered with
the jury, the speakers annoanced they
would lead the way to the parish prison,
Mr. Wickliff concluding with these
words:" Shall the execrable Mafia
allowed to flourish in this city? Shall be
the Mafia be allowed to cut down our
citizens on the public streets by the fol
means of assassination? Shall the
Matia be allowed to bribe jurors and let
murderers go free?"
By this time the crowd had swelled to
3000 or more, and before any one
could realize what had
the great throng, gaining recruits happened at
every step, was tramping down the
street to the neighborhood of the prison,
stopping only once, and that was at the
arsenal, where double- barrelled
guns, Winchester rifles and pistols shot- were
handed out to responsible and respectable
citizens in the party.
The starting of the crowd had an electric
effect on the city. Soon the streets
were alive with people, running from all
directions and joining the main body,
which moved down Rampart street to
the jail, near Congress square. Doors
and windows were thrown open and men,
women and children crowded on the
galleries to witness the scene. When
the main crowd reached the prison there
had already collected a large crowd
there.
When the vanguard of armed citizens
reached the prison, which is many
squares from Canal treet, that grim
old building was surrounded on all sides.
Sheriff Viller, when he heard a move-
Iment was on foot to take the prisoners,
armed his deputies and then started on
a hunt for Mayor Shakespeare. The
Italian Consul and Attorney- General
Rogers joined in the pursuit, but his
honor does not reach his office until
noon and he was not to be found at any
of his regular haunts.
The Governor had not heard of the
uprising and had no time to act and the
police force was too small to offer much
resistance to the army of avengers.
Superintendent Gaster had ordered an
extra detail of officers to be sent to the
jail. Small squads kept the sidewalks
around the old building clear until a
great multitude, swelling all the time
like a mighty, roaring stream, surged
around the door and crowded the little
band of blue- coats away.
Captain Lew Davis was on guard at
the main entrance, with a scant force of
deputies. They were swept away like
chaff before the wind and in an instant
the little anteroom leading into the
prison was jammed with eager, excited
men.
Meanwhile the prisoners were stricken
with terror for they could hear dis-
,
tinctly the shouts of the people without,
madly demanding their blood. People
who were charged with crimes other
than complicity in the murder of the
Chief aiso shared in the general demoralization
. Some of the braver among
the representatives of the Mafia wanted
to die fighting for their lives and pleaded
for a weapon with which to defend
themselves, and when they could not
find these they sought hiding- places.
Deputies, thinking to deceive the
crowd by a ruse, transferred the nineteen
men to the female department and
there the miserable Sicilians trembled
in terror until the moment when the
doors yielded to the angry throng.
Captain Davis refused a request to
open the prison and the crowd began
the work of tearing the doors down. On
Orleans street, there was a heavy
wooden door, which was barred in
ticipation of the coming of the mob an-.
This door was selected as the best en-
trance. Willing hands went to work to
force an opening. This did not prove a
difficult task to the trembling but determined
throng. Soon there was a
crash, the door gave way and in an instant
the armed citizens were pouring
through the small opening while a
mighty shout went up from the multi-
tude. The turnkey was overpowered
and his keys taken from him.
By that time excitement was intense,
none less so when a patrol wagon drove
up with a detachment of police, who
were driven away under a fire of mud
and stones.
When the leaders inside got possession
of the keys the doors were easily
unlocked. The door of the first cell was
opened. A group of trembling prisoners
stood inside. They were not the men
who were wanted and the crowd burst
into the yard.
Peering through the bars of a condemned
cell was a terror- stricken face
who some mistook for Scaffedi. A volley
was fired at the man and he dropped,
but none of the shots struck him and it
was subsequently found he was not one
of the assassins.
The inmates of the jail were ready to
direct the way to where the men were.
Arriving at the female ward, the door
was locked. In a moment a key was
produced. Then the leader called for
some one who knew the right men. A
volunteer responded and the door was
thrown open. The gallery was deserted,
but an old woman said the men were
up- stairs. The crowd quickly ascended
the stairs and as they reached the landing
, the assassins fled down at the other
end. Half a dozen followed them.
Scarcely a word was spoken.
When pursued and pursuers reached
the stone courtyard, the former darted
toward the Orleans side of the gallery
and in fear and trembling they screamed
for mercy, but the avengers were
less. Bang! bang! bang! rang out merci- the
bullets was poured into the crouching
reports of weapons and a deadly rain of
figures.
Gerachi, the closest man, was struck
in the back of the head and his body
pitched forward.
Romero fell on his knees, with his
face in his hands, and in that position
was shot to death.
Monastero and James Caruso fell together
under the fire of a half
guns, leaden pellets entering dozen their
bodies and heads.
When the group of assassins was discovered
on the gallery, Macheca, Scoffedi
and old man Marchesi separated from
the other six and ran up stairs. Thither
a half dozen men followed, and as the
terror- stricken assassins ran into cells
they were slain.
Joe Macheca had his back turned
when shot.
Scoffedi, one of the most villainous of
the murderers, dropped like a log when
a bullet hit him in the eye
Politz was locked up in. a cell up
stairs. The doors were flung open and
one of the avengers, taking aim, shot
him through the body. He was not
killed, and, in order to satisfy the people
on the outside, who were crazy to know
what was going on, he was dragged
down stairs. Half carried, half dragged,
he was taken to a corner, a rope was
provided and tied around his neck and
the people pulled him up to the crossbars
. Not satisfied with that, a score of
men poured a volley of shots into his
body. For several hours the body was
left dangling in the air.
Just as soon as the bloody work was
done, Mr. Parkerson asked the crowd to
disperse. They consented to do so and,
with a ringing cheer, lifted Parkerson
on their shoulders and marched down
the street to the Clay statue, where
they dispersed.
The fronts of the newspaper offices
were blocked by people. There was intense
, suppressed excitement, but the
action of the citizens was applauded
from one end of the city to the other.
The atmosphere has been considerably
purged and, though there is a big crowd
on Canal street tonight, the trouble
seems all over.
The Italian Consul declined to say
tonight what action, if any, he will take.
The prison was surrounded until dark
by a motley multitude, but the
found no difficulty in maintaining police order.
