Trotter Globe The By Cliff Mackay
Forgotten State's Rights
HOW VERY, VERY inconsistent and contradictory
our Southern white friends can be, especially
on the cenury- old argument of" state's rights."
Less than a month ago Southern governors and
congressmen were standing in Washington loudly
proclaiming their resentment raised by the Wagner-
Van Nuys federal antilynching bill, chiefly because
of their contention that it was a direct violation of
their much- cherished principle of" state's rights."
One speaker went so far as to
term the measure" an insult hurled
into the face of every white
gentleman." Just how this bill designed
to further guarantee the
protection of life and limb of all
citizens could be construed as an
" insult" was not made clear by
this speaker ..
IT'S RAISED EVERYTIME
But the old" state's rights" argument
was vociferously raised, MACKAY
just as it has been done every time
in the past when the question of federal legislation
designed to protect Negro life below the well known
line comes up.
So often has this state's rights theory been
brought up in connection with Negroes, many lead-
ers of the race have been led to interpret state's
rights as argued by Southern legislators to mean
the right to flog, to lynch, to exploit and to mistreat
Negroes without molestation from the outside.
Perhaps this may be faulty reasoning, but oddly
enough the state's rights issue is raised in
Washington chiefly when legislation and matters
involving Negroes is being debated.
But back to this inconsistent business. Did you
know how conveniently this state's rights contention
is forgotten the civil rights and lives of
the majority group when are threatened,
ROGGE HAS HIS SAY
O. John Rogge, head of the Department of
Justice's criminal division was in Atlanta last week
and while here made a statement, which if it ap-
Negroes, would have
plied to the protection of
surely brought down an avalanche of state's rights
supporters on his head.
Mr. Rogge, it so happened, was speaking of
the wave of floggings which have swept Fulton
county, the victims of which have been chiefly
white people.
Disclosing that Department of Justice investigators
are already working on the cases, Mr. Rogge
added that his department was" interested in protecting
and fostering civil liberties."
He disclosed that his department" will prosecute
" if violations constituting federal offenses occur
.
These words were uttered right in the heart of
the" state's rights" belt, yet not a single adherent
to the ancient principle raised his voice in dissent
.
ANNOUNCEMENT WELCOMED
And the announcement from all appearances
seemed to be welcomed by local officials. whc
plainly are baffled in their efforts to uncover the
lawless gang which has without the least regard
for the civil rights of others, abducted, terrorized
and brutally flogged uncounted scores of people of
both races.
The haste of the Department of Justice to investigate
the Atlanta floggings raises a question in
the minds of many about this highly efficient bureau
of our federal government.
It can be recalled by many how useless were
all of the pleadings of NAACP officers to have J
Edgar Hoover and his workers to investigate the
Claude Neal case, in which a man was seized by
a mob in Alabama and lynched in Florida.
Some may wonder in view of the quick action
exhibited by the Department of Justice in the At-
lanta cases, if perhaps Mr. Neal's color was not
for the very dilatory and evasive tac-
responsible tics displayed in that case, It's a thought, anyway.
