? Difference a Make Years 43 Do
Editorial Comment
WHAT CHANGE IS WROUGHT in the
feelings and beliefs of people over the
span of 43 years?
Forty- three years ago in Atlanta, Georgia
, a Jewish businessman was whisked
out of jail and lynched by a mob of terrorists
. The man was Leo Frank, a northerner
who had moved into the south. He
had been convicted on the flimsiest of evidence
of the murder of a 14- year- old girl.
The governor of Georgia, noting the
thin shadow of evidence against Frank,
commuted Mr. Frank's death sentence to
a prison term. And, in fact, it was reported
that a janitor of the factory where
the girl was killed had confessed to the
murder.
The governor's commutation of sentence
came on the same day the mob lynched
Leo Frank.
The Leo Frank case stirred nation- wide
indignation. And Jews began to fear that
" it COULD happen here" in America. For
in the south little was done to either halt
the lynching or punish the terrorists. In
fact, the leader of the mob was one Tom
Watson who rose to political power, rising
on the bitter wings of hate and antiSemitism
.
That grisley case of terror in the south
took place in the year 1915.
In the year 1958- just 43 years later-
in the same city of Atlanta terror struck
again. A bomb was exploded in a Jewish
Temple, causing$ 200,000 in damage.
What was the reaction to terrorism in
the south 43 years later? Was there an
apathy, a silent condoning of these acts
of hate?
Well, it appears that in 1958 there is
greater intelligence and sympathy in the
south. Almost immediately after the
bombing, church, civic and governmental
leaders in Atlanta stood up to condemn
the terrorism. Atlanta newspapers wrote
blistering editorials; the Federal Bureau
of Investigation moved into action and the
criminals were caught quickly.
has been progress made since the
Frank There case. But we have not yet erased
from our minds the burning possibility
that" It Can Happen Here". The wave of
bombings and threats that flashed across
country following the Atlanta bombing
the was swift, terrible evidence of that.
