STOPPING MOB VIOLENCE
Judge Moses Wright, generally accredited
one of the most level- headed
and conscientious jurists in Georgia,
has suggested by a recent novel and
courageous act a new line of thought
in dealing with the sometimes distressing
problem of lynch law.
A man charged with a horrible crime
was recently brought before Judge
Wright during a session of court at Sum-
merville, Ga. The man's act was so
attrocious, so far as his appearance
seemed to go, that it was feared he
would never be permitted to go to
trial, but would be dealt with in summary
fashion, by a mob then reported
forming. Before proceeding with the
case, the judge placed the officers of the
law in charge of the prisoner; saw that
he was securely and amply guarded, and
adjourned court for the purpose of hav.
ing a few words with the cooler heads
of the town. In front of the court
house the magistrate gathered together
as many as he could get to listen to him,
and then and there pleaded earnestly
with all patriotic men present to stand
by him in upholding the law of the
land and in dealing justice righteously.
In part, Judge Wright said:
' I realize that it is not the good,
true citizens of Summerville who
are talking of lynching. I understand
that a lot of people are here
from Alabama seeking to incite
trouble. I want to see justice done,
and I intend to do my best to see
that it is done. I want you good
men to help me. And I want to say
further, if any of you hear any man,
or set of men, advocating mob violence
here, you come to me and give
me their names. I pledge you my
word I will send every one of them
promptly to jail for six months for
contempt of court. I can do that,
and I will. Give me their names
and I will do the rest."
Significantly enough, it is reported
that after this delivery upon the part
number of
of the presiding judge, a
strangers" quietly sneaked out of
town, and no trouble of any kind arose
during the progress of the trial.
Judge Wright is, evidently, a practical
man, as well as an upright judge.
He appealed to the better element for
assistance in a manner that could hard-
failed to be effective. Confi-
ly have
dently, he put the trouble- makers on
plain notice that they would get a jail
sentence at the very outset if they
sought to bring disgrace to his jurisdiction
. The scheme could not fall
through. It touched the good citizen
in a spot sure to win his co- operation;
it touched the would- be lyncher in his
most vulnerable point- his fear for his
own precious hide.
If Judge Wright is a man of his word
and he bears that reputation in Georgia
- and had been presiding in Missis-
sippi in that particular locality wherein
one ex- Senator Sullivan boasts he recently
incited a mob to lynching, that
worthy would now be behind the bars
thinking it over! It will be remembered
that Sullivan was careful enough to
state that he" didn't shoot" or" otherwise
participate in the affair." He only
" urged it on with all his might." If
Sullivan should try that on in Judge
Wright's bailiwick some time, he would
get something he wouldn't forget- an
immediate jail sentence, and a very
probable grand jury indictment to follow
!
It may be that Judge Wright, of
Georgia, has solved, in large measure,
the question of dealing with mob violence
, in his immediate section at
events. all
