A LYNCHING BEE.
A MOB'S TERRIBLE WORK AT THE
TENNESSEE CAPITAL.
Eph Grizzard, a Colored Rapist Hanged
By an Infuriated Mob in Nashville,
Tennessee.
Associated Press Dispatches.
NASHVILLE, Tenn., May 5.- The mob
that assembled at the jail here last night
and made several attacks upon the
doors, with the intention of securing
Eph Grizzard, colored, and lynching
him for a criminal assault upon the
Misses Bruce, near Goodlettsville, re-
turned home at daylight after threatening
to come again. They came and
this afternoon finished their work, taking
Grizzard from jail and hanging him
from a railing on the iron truss bridge
across the Cumberland river. The excitement
over the attempts made last
night to break into the jail was intensi-
fied ten- fold today when it was stated
that Allen B. Guthrie and Charles
Rear, who were shot last night during
the firing at the jail were probably fatally
wounded. It was found that a 44-
caliber bullet had entered Guthrie's
left side just under the shoulder and
had pierced the lung. The wound was
pronounced fatal, and Guthrie was removed
to the city hospital. Rear was
shot in the abdomen, and probably fat
ally wounded. Rear, it is claimed, was
accidentally shot. He is at the hospital
.
This afternoon a mob formed on the
public square and rushed to the jail,
where they secured the keys. When
the mob reached the jail four or five
men scaled the tall iron fence in the
front of the building. The leader demanded
and was given the keys, and
they rushed to Grizzard's cell, and adjusting
a rope around his neck, dragged
him out amid the cheers of the mob.
Grizzard was attired in a Mother Hub-
bard, dress preparatory to being smuggled
out of the jail. He struggled hard
but the rope was seized by a dozen earnest
men and he was taken up the street.
As he was being dragged along some
one stabbed him in the back with a
huge pocket knife. The police had orders
not to fire unless they did so in
self defense, and when the mob entered
the officers gave way without serious resistance
. After the body had dropped
from the bridge the dress which Griz-
zard wore, and which had been torn
from him'in his struggles, dropped off,
and the lower portion of his body was
completely nude. While dangling there
above the water the mob fired at least
fifty shots into his head and body. One
man leaned over the railing and fired
six shots into his head. Others fired
shots at an angle into his body, Occa-
sionaily some member of the thoroughly
infuriated mob would reach over the
railing, catch the rope, pull the body
high into the air and let it drop, when
the body would jump up like a limber
jack. Every time a shot was fired the
crowd greeted it with terrific applause.
There were several thousand people
present, but there were not more than
100 who acnually took part in the lynching
. These did not hesitate, but acted
in a determined manner.
After hanging for two hours the body
was cut down and an inquest held, a verdict
of death by gunshot wounds and
strangulation at the hands of unknown
parties being returned. The body was
sent by the train to Goodlettsville, and
the people at every station between
this city and Goodlettsville cheered as
the train went by. At Goodlettsville
the body was taken to the public square
where it was viewed by hundreds of
citizens. It was then turned over to an
undertaker for burial. A report that
the body would be burned proved be
untrue. to
