The Lynching Record for 1915.
With the statement of Tuskegee Institute, published
broadcast throughout the world relative to the lynching record
for 1916, this nation should indeed hang its head in
shame. There were six more colored and eleven more
white men lynched in 1915 than 1914. Eighteen, or one-
quarter, occured in Georgia.
Of the sixty- nine lynched Tuskegee's eminent statistician
speaks as follows. These facts and figures are far
more eloquent than words:
Only 11, 10 Negroes and 1 white, of those put to death,
or 15 per cent of the total, were charged with rape. Other
offences and number lynched for were: Murder, 17( 5 whites
and 12 Negroes); wounding officers of the law, 3; killing officers
of the law, 9( 3 whites and 6 Negroes) clubbing officer of
the law, a family of 4( father, son and 2 daughter); poisoning
mules, 3; stealing hogs, 2( white): disregarding warning of
ntght riders, 2( white); insulting women, 3: entering women's
rooms, 2; wounding a man, 2; stealing meat, 1: burglary, 2;
robbery, 1; looting, 1; stealing cotton, 1; charged with stealing
a cow, 1; furnishing ammunition to man resisting arsest,
2; beating wife and child, 1( white); charged with being accessory
to the burning of a barn, 1.
" Lynchings occurred in the following States: Alabama,
9: Arkansas, 5; Florida, 5; Georgia, 18; Illinois. 1; Kentucky,
5: Louisiana, 2: Mississippi, 9; Missouri, 2; Ohio, 1; Oklaho-
ma South Carolina Tennessee 2 Texas
, 3:;,; 5: Virginia 1"
.
,
The question arises: What is America going to do with
the barbaric, disgraceful South. How can she, without the
usual Wilson hypocrisy, talk about humanity to Europe
How can America pick the mote out of her brothers' eyes?
with the beam in her own
eyes?
Under no circumstances.
whether of pain or grief or
disappointment, or irreparable
mistake, can it be true that
there is not something to be
done, as well as something
to be suffered."
" What a piece of work is
man! How noble in reason!
how infiniie in faculty! In
form and moving how express
and admirate! In action how
like an angel! In apprehension
how like a God! Think
of 69 Humans being slaughtered
without a trial or jury
-Du- Bois. !!
