LAWLESSNESS FOR 1906
The year that has closed marks in its trail the blood of victims who
have met their deaths at the hands of the mob. The number to perish
by this distinction from American barbarity was seventy- three. Mis-
sissippi takes the lead in the fifteen states where lynching occurred
during the year. Colorado managed to squeeze into the bunch of lawless
states with a lynching on the last day of the old year. Sixty- nine
of the total strung were Negroes, leaving only three whites who came
to their death in this high- handed way, as one of the totals was a
colored woman. Instead of lynching being put down, it increased over
the previous year, where the total number to meet death without process
of law was sixty- five. Fifteen states disgraced themselves in
the work of illegal taking of life, as follows: Alabama, five; Arkansas,
four; Colorado, one; Florida, six; Georgia, nine; Indian Territory, one;
Kentucky, three: Louisiana, nine; Mississippi, thirteen; Maryland, one;
Missouri, three; North Carolina, five; South Carolina, five; Tennessee,
two; Texas, six.
The method of butchery was as follows: forty- three were hanged,
twenty- one shot in the open; two shot in jail while awaiting for trial,
two hanged and shot, four hanged and burned, one shot and burned.
The causes for which these people met their death forms an interesting
study, and shows with what slight provocation the mob spirit
is aroused. For criminal assault, fourteen; attempted criminal assault
, nineteen; assault and murder, one; murder, fifteen; attempt at
murder, eleven; murder and robbery, one; double murder, one; triple
murder, three; quadruple murder, one; miscegenation, one; improper
proposal, one; carrying pistol, one; theft of a calf, one; theft of a dollar
, one; disorderly conduct, one.
This is the bloody record of 1906. When it is seen that twelve of
these lynchings occurred on twelve different Sundays, you get some
idea of the disregard for life and the sacrilegious respect for the civil
or church quiet and rest. This is nothing to the great throng who witnessed
this carnival of lawlessness, and are therefore worse in their
morals because of it.
America has a great deal to atone for, and the blood of the Negro
cry from the ground for vengeance. Many whites wear the mark
will of Cain on their conscience that water cannot cleanse.
