LYNCHERS THE OF LUST THE
We used to speak of epidemics of lynching, when that barbarous practice
received some unusual impetus and seemed to show evidence of contagion
. The expression granted the existence of a moral and social weakness
which would yield to scientific treatment, but the recent revival of the
scourge in its most virulent form indicates that its seat in the white man's
nature is of a mental rather than a physical character. Oklahoma's recent
disgrace, through the ruthless murder of a colored woman and her child by
a jelly- brained mob, has been quite surpassed in Pennsylvania, where a
wounded Negro prisoner, chained to a hospital cot, was carried and dragged.
cot and all, over several miles of road, and thrown into a blazing fire, where,
against his struggles to liberate himself from his chains, he was kept in
place and in fiery torment with fence rails, pitch- forks and other improvised
prods and tongs. His crime was attempted robbery and the killing of a
white officer undertaking his arrest. His punishment was far beyond the
revenge of the savage.
Race hatred, pure and simple, and the undeniable social degeneracy of
that strata of the white race which knows no other source of reform than
violence, gives little hope for the success of the desire of reasoning men for
the triumph of law and the adjustment of racial relations in the United
States upon a common standard. It is interesting to note the similarity of
procedure in Pennsylvania and in the darkest South in these lynching cases,
even to the subtle manufacture of false press reports. The white man commits
a thousand crimes to avenge one crime of a Negro. And he is so unashamed
that he ravenously gathers souvenirs of his own atrocities and
exhibits them with glee and gloating.
Lynching is a white man's problem; Negroes should hold no mass meetings
over it. In the endeavor to minimize and eradicate crime, we are doing
our part well, but the white man's civilization is at stake.
hatred is the pall of national glory, and the white man's best efforts
are Race needed for his own redemption.
