John Mills, the Mormon.
HIS FIGHT WITH COLONEL TURK.
When the Mormons settled in Missouri in
1833, an enthusiastic young man named Mills
was their most popular and admired preacher.
Indeed so great was his fame that whenever he
held meetings a crowd of the saints were sure
to be present.
A strong violent mob of lynchers was about
this time organized to put down the Mormons
under the command
,
of Colonel Turk- one of
the most desperately dangerous men that Missou-
ri, or in truth, any other country ever produced.
Some of the Mormons were tared and feathered,
some were scourged with long, knotty hickories,
till they fainted from the excess of torture and
the loss of blood- others were forcibly deprived
of their property, and reduced in a day to the
condition of beggars- while others still shared
a doom of more mercy and were shot down on
the prairie like so many wolves. At last Turk
resolved to take some of the conceit out of the
young preacher, Mills, and he gave notice to his
men accordingly.
It was a dreadful cold night in mid- winter,
1833, and although the sky was cloudless, and
the full moon shone out in all her splendor, the
earth lay in that pearly radiance, chill and dreary
as a frozen tomb; for a thick sheet of snow
crusted its surface, and the north wind howled
over it a dismal dirge. It was a night to drive
even the thieves and outlaws into barns and
stables for shelter, and to keep honest people by
the blaze of their own roaring hearths.
And yet strange to say, in a log cabin, within
three hundred yards of the Missouri river, then
frozen from shore to shore, at least one
people had assembled to hold a religious meeting hundred.
They were Mormons, you may be sure. No
fanatic of an old faith would have turned out on
such a night; they must be fresh zealots, with
some new idea but at its birth in their hearts and
flaming like a meteor in their imaginations, or
they never could have ventured to face such an
ice blast as that. The congregation included
men and women in about equal numbers, and
many of the former carried rifles, which they
grasped with one hand, even when kneeling down
in prayer; such was the imminence of peril,
either real or imagined, as they deemed pending
over them.
The preacher- the enthusiastic Mills- had
advanced to a thrilling head of his eloquent discourse
, and was painting in terrible fire- language
the bitter persecution which has ever followed
the footsteps of all great reformers since the
beginning of time. Never before had he been
half so animated or half so affecting. His blue
eye gleamed like a star- his voice pealed like a
trumpet, shrill as the wild wind which whistled
over the house top; and his beardless lip seemed
literally loaded with music. Groans, tears,
and wild shrieks from the audience, proved the
despotic power of the utterance. Suddenly
three rifles exploded in quick succession before
the door, and three sentinels, shaking with terror
, rushed into the room, crying out- The
mob! the mob! Save yourselves from Colonel
Turk's mob!"
No person can depict the scene of dismay and
confusion that ensued. The females screamed
aloud, as if all hope had departed. Several of
the men sprang out of the windows and fled, as
if pursued by a legion of devils, while most of
those who remained appeared stupified and to
tally powerless, either to escape or make ready
for resistance. Indeed there was little space
allowed for preparation. In a few moments a
mob amounting to hundreds had surrounded the
building, and the muzzles of fifty cocked guns
and pistols were thrust in through the doors and
windows. Still none within lifted a finger for
defence- fear seemed to have turned them into
Persecution had not yet hardened the
spate
" Latter Day Saints" into veterans, and the after-
wards famous" Mormon Legion" existed then
only in the imagination of the prophet.
Presently the lynchers, headed by the all-
dreaded and gigantic Colonel Turk, rushed in,
and began to beat the people furiously with the
iron ramrods of their rifles, with very little distinction
of mercy as to the age or sex. The
cries and vain entreaties of the poor sufferers
swelled to a wail wilder than the howling of the
wind without. At length Col. Turk roared-
" Turn out the women and seize the men, and let
us have the hickory switches and the tar and
feathers!"
And the drunken mob shouted, and hastened
to execute the brutal mandate.
Up to this time young Mills had continued
standing with the Bible of their prophet in
hand, but unearthly pale and strangely excited his,
his lip writhing, his teeth clenched, and his
bright eyes swimming in a halo of fire. Suddenly
he made a bound for an adjacent window,
and notwithstanding more than twenty endeavored
to seize he, he effected his escape from
the house.
" Chase him -- shoot him -- take him, alive or
dead!"- cried Turk, in a transport of rage, sets
the example by commencing the pursuit
himself.
The flight of Mills was directed in a straight
line for the river, and his marvellous agility,
added to the start he had first got, soon placed
him at some distance ahead. They fired both
rifles and shot at him he and happi-
- guns as ran
,
ly without effect. When he came to the riverside
he stooped down, and hastily fastened on a
pair of skates, which he had carried in his
pocket for the last few days to be ready for any
extraordinary emergency, and then taking the
ice, skimmed over the frozen stream with the
swiftness of the wind.
" Has nobody a pair of skates?" shouted Col.
Turk, striking his forehead with a gesture of
wrath and vexation.
" I have," answered one of the mob;" but I
shall certainly not try them on the ice such a
night as this."
" Be quick, give them to me!" exclaimed Turk
in a tone of fiery impatience.
The skates were produced; the eager Colonel
tried them on, and then, swearing a dreadful
oath that he would bring back the preacher's
scalp or leave his own, he began the perilous
chase. Oh! there is no darking like the courage
inspired by the passion for revenge!
the meanwhile, Mills had approached the
farther In shore, when he discovered the startling
apparition of armed men on the bank. He
knew at a glance what it meant. The mob, to
prevent any of the Mormons from escaping, had
stationed a guard beyond the river. He instantly
turned his course down the stream, when a
whole platoon let off their rifles, but the distance
was too considerable. A hail of bullets
rattled around him on the ice without injury.
" I will foil the fiends yet," he said to himself,
and put forth all his speed. Mills flew away,
when he became conscious that
some one was
pursuing him. He slacked his velocity, and
gradually wheeled about to take a view of his
enemy. But the latter was still to remote for
an accurate sucvey, and the Norman sed
aloud a mad prayer- God grant me that it be
Co !. Turk, and I am willing to die!"
On rushed the pursuer -- on, still on, like an
avalanche. The noise of his iron skates could
be heard above the roar of the northern blast,
and his dark form loomed in the glittering moonbeams
, large in statute as a giant. As he drew
nearer the young preacher smiled venomously.
He recognized the arch- persecutor, Col. Turk,
and he laughed outright a laugh, that rung over
the frozen river like the wild scoff of some
demon, when he saw the other unsheath his
gleaming knife. Mills then immediately pulled
his own from its scabbard, and started off, so as
to avoid the coming shock, which might otherwise
prove fatal, by the mere force of the collision
, to both.
And then began a series of rapid and cunning
to secure the advantage in this new
evolutions method of combat, the most terrible ever con
ceived. They marked the smooth surface of
the ice with circles, angles, squares, parallelograms
, and almost every possible figure of plain
geometry; but each seemed a perfect skater, and
could not find the other at fault, or take him unprepared
. They passed repeatedly within three
feet of each other, and made quick thrusts which
pierced to the bone! And still the cloud grew
more intense, and the wrathful wind howled on,
while their manoeuvres and flights somehow
carried them farther down the river where the
crusted ice was thinner, and cracked fearfully
beneath their tread.
Finally the Mormon took the desperate resolve
to terminate the strife by sacrificing his
own life so as to make sure of that of his foe at
the same time: In the following rush, he
no
longer turned aside to avoid a direct collision,
and frustrated the attempt of the lyncher to that
end by swerving slightly inward from a right
line.
They met at full speed, and the shock was
like that of the crust of adverse comets. At
the moment of their fall the quaking ice split
beneath their weight, with a deafening roar, and
the wild waters, boiling and hissing like hell,
swallowed them forever -- the persecutor and his
victim, both victims now!
But the river still rolled on it way to the sea;
the stars all shone as bright and beautiful as of
old in the morning of creation, when the angels
of God chanted their birth song; and the wrath-
fal wind of winter on over the icy grave
of the enemies no more howled! -- Sunday Times.
