of themselves,
satisfied; the respect of the community Md.
with the gold dollars in my drawer, vis- On Thursday, the 24th ult .. by the
of a seat high among the County Judges, berland George, WASHINGTON
Fathers, replaced the grim skeletons of SON, of Spotsylvania, to Miss
broken wives and drunken su cides that Wm Redd Culpeper
- daughter of of
.,
accompanied my first entrance into the busi-
On Wednesday, the 16th ult.,
So I rested secure. The strong arm of the
coiled lovingly around my neck, for i paid B. E. Gibson, Mr. WM. S.
the State and$ 20 to the corporation. Spotsylvania, to Miss SARAH A.
when in a temple of the living God, with of Albemarle.
of earnest oratory, and strains of inspi. In Charlottesville, on Thursday
music, blessed by God's ministers, and Rev J. A. Broadus, Mr. WALTER
by the highest hopes, and the brightest of Westmoreland, to Miss GILLIE
,, of I a beheld thousand your good organization and true perfected men and. ter of Col. John R. Jones.
change came o'er the spirit of my dream." I Died.
thought you were in earnest, gentlemen, Recently, near St. Louis, Missoun
when your Committee issued that eloquent BRONAUGH
the wife strong, whose, but would even arm facts let as me of neither I did deny the it, law my my I damned conscience teeth seemed chattered you to most, nor be, whose merly has short an illness departure individual a resident, Mr. there been CARY of is called this more vicinity away reason
loosening its hold about me, and I was forced to There was in him every quality
which is fitted to inspire confidence
to keep my spirits up.
I
extra law bitters was unconstitutional; but the ion, every promise in youth from
the to anticipate honor
of Taney, McLane, Grier, and Wood- have reason to anticipate
with the decisions of numerous State in the business of life.
, forced this prop from under me Still I In Winchester, on the 15th ult,
with hopeful pertinacity, to a multitude protracted illness of consumption
supports, which as you will presently see, SAN KRAUTH, consort of Rev.
, one by one, only to render my grati- Krauth, in the 321 year of her age
to unlooked for friends, the more complete
had the politicians, and At his residence, in the village
humble. I knew we
the dragon against Michael and his angels, way, Md., on Friday, the 15th ult.,
W. WARD, In about the 60th
the preachers and the wo
them against
age.
-but I looked awhile at the party press.|
though it copied us all the aid it could, JAMES GRIGGS, esq., a highly
either afraid ashamed to be seen in open of Jefferson County and for
or citizen,
with us, hung, like logs, towards the a Justice of the Peace, died on
of tide, watching the current, and ready last, aged about 60 years, leaving
either way. I saw that I had chosen a circle of relatives, neighbors and
foundation. depiore his loss.
sincerely
wondered, all this time, that the League
In Georgetown, on Wednesday
not astir, but concluded they reserved their
till an opportunity for an effective display. 30th ultimo, after a lingering
gan to count on my fingers the number of years, which she bore with fortitude
and turns I could make to escape them. nation, Mrs. MARY ANN RODIER
that in election times we had ever been 67th year of her age.
omnipotent, and pshaw!' twas childish to In this city, on Wednesday, November
that we could not achieve that triumph for AMANDA HAMILTON, late
ourselves, we had so often wrought for others. County in the 19th year of her age
the trial in Washington gave a death blow
free as the
NOT
hope Though the bars were as JOTICE- On and alter the 5th
Hydrants, night announced a vote of two to one Alexandria Library will be
us, and with a heavy heart, the antici- following hours, viz:
shouts of the League, congratulating their On Mondays, Wednesdays, and
hearted brethren in Washington, that had the evening from 7 to 8 o'clock, and
, in season and out of season, for so nesday and Saturday afternoon's
, were ringing in my ears. I rode down great clock. 1. LOUIS KINZER,
