THE TRAGEDY IN SANFRANCISCO.
We condense from the Daily Alta California of May
15th an account of the assassination of Jas. King, of Wil
liam, editor of the San Francisco Bulletin, by James P
Casey, ostensible editor of the Sunday Times. That pa
per says:
A communication appeared in the Sunday Times on
Sunday last over an annonymous signature, which reflee-
is an attache in the custo sing and his brother, who
house. It charged upon James
King that he had avoided to censure Mr. Collector La-
that for his official conduct in consequence of his brother
being an appointee of that officer, and that the brother
was an applicant for the position of U. S. Marshal
, to fill
the vacancy occasioned by the death of Gen. Richardson,
and his failure to obtain it was the reason Mr. King had
so violently opposed the appointment of McDuffie. The
substance of this communication was denied by Mr. King
and his friends, and he sought the name of the anthor,
which Casey refused to give; but nothing concerning the
matter was published until an article appeared in the Bulletin
of May 14th, in the course of which allusion was
made to a fight between Casey and a Mr. Bagley, of the
custom house. The following sentence also occurred in
this artiole:
" The fact that Casey had been an inmate of Sing- Sing
prison in New York, is no offense against the laws of this
State; nor is the fact of his having stuffed himself through
the ballot box as elected to the board of supervisors from a
district where it is said he was not even a candidate, any
justification for Mr. Bagley to shoot Casey, however richly
the latter may deserve to have neck stretched for such
fraud on the people."
Casey went to the office of the Bulletin and demanded
an explanation, which was very decidedly refused by Mr.
King, who showed Casey the door. The same day, about
5 o'clock in the afternoon, Casey met Mr. King in Mont-
gomery street, near the Pacific Express Office, and, it is
said, without giving any warning, except a hurried ery of
" come on," deliberately drew a revolver, which he pointed
at Mr. King's breast and fired. The shot passed through
Mr. King's body, in the left breast next the arm- pit. Mr.
King exclaimed," I am shot," and ran into the Pacific
Express Office, supported by some friends who approached
him. In the twinkling of an eye, Mr. Casey was run off
to the station house and locked up. In less time than we
are writing this account, the street was filled with persons,
and the air was immediately filled with cries of" hang him
hang him,"" where is he,"" where is he,"" run him up to
a lamp post." In less than three minutes the street,
about the corner above mentioned, was densely packed
with human beings, who were in a wild state of excitement,
running in every direction, inquiring the cause of the as
salt of the, the prisoner condition. of the wounded man, and the location
The crowd soon ascertained the whereabouts of Casey,
and made a rush for the City Hall. The station house was
found strongly guarded and barricaded. Being repulsed by
the officers, the mob then dispersed into groups, but continued
to denounce the gamblers in the most exciting language
. For the purpose of greater safety the prisoner
was now smuggled into a carriage and hurried away to the
county jail.
The mob followed. The prisoner appeared with a revolver
in each hand, and guarded by many officers, who at
length succeeded in locking him up. In a few minutes an
immense mob collected in front of the jail demanding summary
punishment. The brother of the wounded man addressed
the crowd, stirring them up to lynch law with the
most exciting language. The brother was soon afterwards
driven from the ground in a carriage.
As it was rumored that the mob was arming to take the
jail military speedily brought the
a company was
, upon
ground. Mayor Van Ness addressed the mob from
front of the jail, but was unable to restore quiet. The the
excitement continued throughout the evening.
On the next day, the 15th ult., all the members of the
old vigilance Committee met pursuant to call, and its
numbers were increased. The meeting was secret. On
the same day it was announced that the military refused to
serve. In the meantime it was announced that people
from the interior of the State promised to send aid to the
committee. The authorities procured cannon to defend
the jail, from vessels in the harbor. An attempt was made
to place Casey on board the revenue cutter in the harbor,
but the commandant refused consent.
On the 16th the Vigilance committee gained large accessions
of strength, and as it was reported that Mr. King
was gradually sinking under his wound the excitement in
creased. The French citizens held a meeting and resolv.
ed to aid the Vigilance committee. A meeting was held
at the court room, a large number of members of the legal
fraternity being present, and a resolution adopted to aid
in the proper legal prosecution of Casey, but deprecating
the excitement. Gov. Johnson had an interview
with the
Vigilance Committee, and the result was the admittance of
a committee of twenty- five citizens to the jail as an extra
guard, to satisfy the people that Casey would not be removed
.
The Vigilance Committee organized and armed a force of
2,600 men, and on the 19th they made the demonstration
against the jail, the force being under the command of
Chas. Doane. Shortly after the forces were placed in position
in the vicinity of the jail, and cannon were planted in
front of the gate. The Sheriff, however, resolved to make
no resistance. Casey told the Sheriff he would go with
the committee, but flourished a knife and swore he would
not be handcuffed. He also demanded assurance that he
should have a fair trial.
The assurance was given. Casey was then conducted to
a carriage under a guard, and so conveyed to the committee
room, where he was placed under a strong guard.-
Subsequently the committee returned and demanded that
Cora, the murderer of Richardson, should be delivered to
them. The Sheriff at first refused compliance, but as the
committee persisted he yielded, and Cora was also conducted
to the room of the committee and placed under
guard.
A correspondent of the N. Y. Times thus alludes to Mr.
King's death:
DEATH OF JAMES KING.
Wednesday, May 21.- James King of William is dead!
He expired at 1 P. M. on yesterday. The solemn tolling
of the church bells immediately announced the great
calamity that had fallen upon us. All business was at once
suspended -- the shops every where were closed and draped
in mourning, and every flag in the port was at half- mast.
The people soon choked up the principal streets to such
degree that one had to traverse several squares out of
his direct course to get to a desired point. Still, not the
least disturbance occurred. Even the bar- rooms were
closed. The whole force of the Vigilants was in the armories
drilling and awaiting orders. The news in a few
moments reached Stockton, Sacramento and San Jose by
telegraph, and dispatches immediately came back that all
the bells were tolling the death- knell, and that the people
were closing their shops and covering all the buildings
with the emblems of woe. Strong men wept like children
as they silently pressed each other's hands. Thousands
were passing into Montgomery Block to take a last
look at the face of the honored dead. A solemn stillness
reigned all the night in the streets, although up to 20'-
clock in the morning they were alive with people. Men
spoke in suppressed voices as they recounted to each other
the wonderful events that were transpiring and which
were expected to- day.
Two o'clock P. M.- I have just passed by the headquarters
of the Vigilant Committee. This morning a general
impression prevailed that the sun had risen for the
last time upon the murderers of King and Richardson.-
But now doubts begin to prevail. The Vigilants stand to
their arms in all the depots. Armed horse patrols guard
the approaches to the trial room. The rain, which has
been falling in torrents since 11 o'clock, has ceased. The
steamer will go in two hours. I never yet looked
an execution and I never shall. F. W. upon R.
