Lynch Law.
Notwithstanding that lynch law is unlawful, and
therefore in its name to a certain extent involves a
contradiction of terms, yet the phrase has become
highly popular in this country, and the actual practice
it so indefinitely defines still more so. In a comprehensive
sense, it implies the summary infliction of
a punishment as nicely adjusted to the offense as the
judgment or passions of the majority of the party
who have the matter in hand can decide, and in a
country where the will of the majority generally settles
every question, it does not seem very strange nor
unreasonable that such a mode of administering justice
or injustice should be greatly in vogue and popular
to a certain extent. Of course it must be repro-
bated openly, however, even when secretly connived
at. It is especially the business of newspapers to
abuse and denounce it as thoroughly as a proper use
of language will permit, and we have known many
an editor become fervidly eloquent in consigning it
to ignominy, who would, we have not a doubt, under
certain circumstances, gladly give a strong pull at the
rope himself if a murderer or a horse- thief were at
the other end.
When we say this, however, we want it distinctly
understood that we must not be classed in that category
. We set our faces inexorably against everything
of the sort, and stand up to advocate law and order.
But then we are not prepared to say that beneficial
results have not occasionally been effected by the
prompt and condign punishment of notorious villains
and desperadoes in cases where the offenses perpetrated
were shockingly intolerable and the usual
remedies entirely worthless and unreliable. We concur
with the humane principle that would permit ten
guilty to escape rather than punish one innocent ;,
but, unfortunately, as our criminal laws are at present
constituted and enforced, it generally happens that
ninety- nine guilty escape and the hundredth innocent
suffers, and in this view we think that as between
lynch law and our criminal law the former has decidedly
best of it so for as justice and humanity
are concerned the.
The frequent appeals of late to the inexorable code
of Judge Lynch induce thought upon this subject,
and hold out the hope that the enormous excess and
increase of crime, and the consequent disregard of all
legal modes of punishment, may, if no other means
can accomplish that result, lead to a thorough reformation
of our defective criminal laws, or rather of
the manner in which they are administered, long
since admitted to be outrageously lax and incompetent
. Lynching has always been deplorably common
in all the domains of Uncle Sam, but within the last
six months it seems to have taken an epidemic form.
During that time not less than nine cases have occurred
in the State of Iowa alone, about a dozen in
other States, to say nothing of Texas and California,
where the number defies all calculation because it
is a thing so common, a matter of course, to hang up
half- a- dozen horse thieves and other rascals a week,
that few people think of noting down a case, and
dismiss it from their minds immediately after it is
completed; and to say nothing, either, of the Happy
Valley of Latter Day Saints, where the Danites have
long made such havoc among the Gentiles. It will
probably become more and more common, until the
jurisdiction of Judge Lynch embraces the whole
country and his courts are appealed to in preference
to all others for the punishment, of grievous offences,
unless it be restrained in some manner not now apparent
, or a radical reform takes place in the public
mind, or in the enforcement of our criminal laws.
Here, in New Orleans, the criminal laws, such as
they are, are enforced in a manner deserving all praise
by Judge Hunt, and the able and efficient District Attorney
Foute. But in casting our eyes over the whole
country we discover a widely different state of affairs
-and it was to the country generally that we
referring. were
