Rebellion. character of the Brutal
A MR. KIRKPATRICK, who had been a
large Railroad contractor in Texas, arrived
in the East in the latter part of the year
1862, and made a publication, from which
we take the following facts, fully illustrative
of the bloody character and brutal ferocity
of the rebellion:
" Upon the mere affirmation of a single individual
, a cultivated and interesting young man from the
State of Delaware, was taken out one morning, tied
to the stump of an old tree, and burnt to death, for
being suspected of selling" Helper's Book." He declared
his innocence of the charge with his last
breath, and dared them for the proof. A father and
two sons were hung on the same tree, just above the
town of Sabine, on the charge that they were supposed
to be" Abolitionists." The third boy, about
fifteen years of age, was offered his life if he would
confess. He said he had nothing to confess; that
his family were peaceable citizens, and molested nobody
, and that if they wanted him to disparage the
memory of his father and brothers, whose yet palpitating
bodies were hanging before him, they might
go ahead and hang him too. They took him at his
word, and in a few moments his boyish form was
suspended by that of his parent. Although there is
deplorable ignorance there, yet this mob does not
consist altogether of such. Doctors, lawyers, and sad
to say, preachers of the Gospel form a portion of it."
Mob law and lynch law have reigned su-
all over the South since the inaugu-
preme,
ration of the rebellion. Among the more
intelligent of the leaders, has been found
the greatest rage for blood, murder, and oppression
. The professedly holy men of
God, a pack of hypocrits with the prefix of
Reverend, to their villainous names, have
seemed ambitious to distinguish themself in
the cause of the Devil, piously characterised
by them, as the cause of Confederacy!
In East Tennessee they tied old man Bird
to a tree and shot him in the presence of
his children. In another portion of East
Tennessee, they violated the persons of a
man's wife and daughter, before the Father's
eyes, and then turned about and shot
the father and husband, in the presence
of the daughter and wife. This was the
the flow
work of the cavelry portion of".
a
,
of the Southern youth." In Robinson
county in Middle Tennessee, they robbed
old WAGNER of$ 300 and then
an preacher,,,
shot him dead on his premises.
Similar outrages, and worse, were committed
in all parts of the South, and to meet
there, and prevent complaints, Jeff Davis
issued a proclamation setting forth the brutal
outrages perpetrated by Federal troops,
and threatening to hang BUTLER, of
Orleans! New
