ITALIANS PROTEST.
Large Gathering at Cooper Union in
New York- The Lynching of Their
Countrymen at New Orleans Vehemently
Denounced.
NEW YORK, March 20.- The great hall
of Cooper Union was packed with 5,000
Italians of New York and vicinity tonight
, called together to denounce the
Lynching of their countrymen in New Or-
leans.
As many more were unable to
gain admittance. There was much excitement
, and shortly before 9 o'clock the
crush out side the doors broke in. A number
of people were injured in the rush,
and it took the 150 policemen present a
quarter of an hour to drive the new arriv-
als out.
The meeting was openad promptly at 8
o'clock. The presiding officer was Signor
A. DeAngello.
The speeches were nearly all in Italian
and the denunciations were vehement.
Every utterance was applauded to the echo,
the enthusiasm being especially strong
when the speakers spoke of the necessity
for satisfaction. The meeting, however,
was generally orderly. The crowd without
was addressed from the balcony by a
number of speakers. The hall was draped
with American and Italian flags and festoons
of black crepe. On the platform
were a few women among the 200 prominent
Italians, while in the body of the
house but one was to be seen. Among
those on the platform were: Dr. Louis
Roversi, editor of Il Progresso; B. Clam-
belli, editor of Cristofero Colombo, Professor
Calabrese, Dr. LaPote, Vincenz Por-
cas and George Francis Train. When
President DeAngello stepped to the front
of the platform and rapped for order there
was a lull in the noise. He said quietly
and impressively:" Italiani." There was
a moment's silence and then a roar of
" bravos."
Continuing, Signor De Abgello said the
Italians' united committees were unanimous
in protesting in the name of the
Italian colony of New York city against
the massacre of eleven of their countrymen
at New Orleans. They came to this
country to earn their living and they were
peaceable citizens. The American press
was with them in the denunciation of the
outrage, and he hoped the Italian press of
this city would always show the unanimity
. As they protested with dignity and
calmness they expected the whole world
would do them justice. He hoped there
would be no disturbance. They did not
protest against the country, but against
the laws that permitted such deeds in New
Orleans.[ Cheers.] The next speaker was
Dr. Asselta, who spoke with great emphasis
. He said he was there to protest
against the villains who killed their countrymen
.
Just as the meeting was about to close,
several persons in different parts of the
hall arose and asked to be allowed to
speak. This request was promptly refused
by the chairman. The agitators
then appealed to their fellows, asking
them if they meant to sit there inactive
and urging them to act and avenge the
wrong done in New Orleans. The instant
they began to talk in this way those in
charge of the meeting sprang from the
platform and urged the audience to be
quiet and orderly. Meanwhile the police
had taken the riot inciters in hand and
hustled them from the hall. It was a critical
moment and bloodshed would have
followed had not the committee
the police acted so promptly. and
