the city building is likely to be destroyed.
Officials Escape.
AKRON, Aug. 23, 1 a. m.- All of the officers
who have been penned up in the
city building for three hours escaped
through a rear window and ran for their
lives. The mob is now making for the
firemen and as fast as lines of hose are
stretched they are cut.
Arthur E. Sprague has just been carried
from the street, shot in the head.
A man named Parkstair has been shot in
the legs. It is thought no less than a
dozen people have been wounded in the
midnight attack on the city building.
The mob has now commenced to cut the
electric light wires and these lines are being
written by light furnished from the
burning buildings. Thousands of people
are yet gathered in the neighborhod of
the city building. The mob that broke
into the Standard Hardware Store was
made up mostly of boys, who carried
away hundreds of rifles and much other
property.
number of people were wounded in
A
to- night's fearful riot and it may run up
into the hundreds.
Dynamite has been used in front of the
city building. The first charge smashed
all the windows in the city building and
did much other damage. All the prison-
have been released from the city
ers
The crowd threatens to destroy
prison.
the city building with dynamite. Alonzo
Manchester, fireman, has been seriously
shot in the neck. John Hern has been
shot in the arm.
CLEVELAND, Ohio, Aug. 22.- This
afternoon Sheriff Kelly and Prosecutor
Wannamaker of Summit County arrived
in Cleveland from Akron, with two colored
prisoners, Louis Peck, accused of
assaulted the little Maas girl, and Wil-
liam Howard, another colored man, accused
of a minor offense, w..om the Akron
authorities thought it best to remove from
within reach of the mob. Both were lock-
ed up in the county jail.
Appeal for Aid.
Mayor Young of Akron has called up
the Central Police Station in this city by
telephone and made an urgent appeal for
help. He requested that a squad of
police and an officer be quickly sent from
Cleveland to the aid of the Akron authorities
. Mayor Young stated that the situation
was extremely critical as the mob
had the Akron policemen penned up in
a building and were about to set fire to it,
The Mayor also said he had called on
the Eighth Regiment, National Guard
Company, in Akron, but that the captain
had absolutely refused to call his men out.
Central station officers immediately
notified Director of Police Barrett, Chief
of Police Corner and Night Captain Brad
ley, and these three officials at once held
a conference to discuss the advisability
of granting the request. It was understood
at 2 a. m. that no decision had yet
been reached.
Cleveland policemen would have the
legal right to do service at Akron even if
,
that city is thirty miles distant, as they
are officers of the State.
COLUMBUS, Ohio, Aug. 23.- Governor
Nash has received the following appeal
from the Mayor of Akron to quell the riot
in that city:
AKRON, O., Aug. 23, 12:50 a. m.- To His
Excellency. Governor Nash, Columbus, O .:
Serious riot. City building attacked by a mob
of several thousand. Three or four people
killed, eight or ten seriously wounded. Have
ordered out both local companies. They are
unable to cope with the situation. Please
sanction what I have done by wire and order
one or two companies either from Cleveland or
Canton to come to Akron at once. Call me by
telephone. If you desire further information
wire me at once. W. E. YOUNG, Mayor.
Governor Nash came to the executive
chamber in the capitol at 1:30 a. m. and
immediately took steps to furnish the Ak-
ron authorities assistance. Colonel Potter
of the Fourth Ohio, which is now in
camp at Minerva Park, near this city, was
ordered to hold his regiment in readiness
to move on short notice, while the colonel
himself was summoned to a
with the Governor. conference
AKRON, Ohio, Aug. 22.- Two persons
are known to have been killed, several
maimed, and for hours to- night the streets
of Akron were filled with a wild, uncontrollable
mob. The trouble was the outcome
of an unsuccessful attempt to lynch
a negro who is charged with a brutal assault
.
The mob formed with the intention of
lynching Louis Peck, a negro who was arrested
to- day charged with having attempted
to assault Christiana, the 6- year-
old daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Theodore
Maas, industrious and respectable people,
who live on Perkins Hill.
In the Police Court the prisoner pleaded
guilty and was bound over to the Common
Pleas Court in$ 5000 bail.
A large crowd gathered about the city
prison to- night at 8:30 o'clock and forced
in the doors. The prison was soon
packed with the mob and the officers offered
no resistance, as Peck earlier in the
evening had been quietly taken away to
Cleveland.
To satisfy the mob the officers suggested
that a committee of six be appointed to
search all the cells and go through every
part of the building. This was done, and
as the negro was not found a yell was,
" Now for the County Jail. Give us the
' nigger' and we will deal with him."
Rush to the Jail.
A mad rush followed for the jail and
soon the jail was in the hands of the mob.
After going through the private apartments
of the jail the crowd started to batter
down the big iron doors. Deputy Sheriff
Stone stood in front of the prison doors
and made a speech.
He informed the crowd that Peck could
not be found there, and he told the people
in the mob to select a committee and he
would allow the committee to search the
jail from top to bottom. A committee was
quickly selected and the jail was searched
,
every cell being entered. Satisfied that
the negro was not there, the mob then
rushed across the street and forced open
The
the doors of the county courthouse.
old courthouse was soon packed and all
rooms searched, except the rooms in the
treasury department. A start was made
to tear off the iron doors of the treasury
department, but the mob decided not to
tackle the job, and then the thousands of
men and boys again rushed back to the
city prison, crying for the blood of Peck.
The city prison was again surrounded
and hundreds of people forced their way
into the prison for the second time, insisting
that Peck was there. Mayor
Young at this time appeared at one of
the windows in the upper part of the
building.
He addressed the mob as best he could,
saying that Peck had been taken out of
the prison at 4 o'clock by Sheriff Kelly
and driven out of the city in a closed carriage
. The people in the mob would not
believe the Mayor and continued to yell
and demand that Peck be surrendered.
Prison Again Attacked.
At 10 o'clock the mob began for the
third time to attack the city prison. Some
one in the crowd began shooting at the
building. This was followed by several
more shots. The officers in the building
appeared at the windows and then shot
over the heads of the mob. A man with a
shotgun then fired at the officers.
It is said that several officers were
wounded. The crowd then began to smash
in the windows of the city building and
the firing became general. Hundreds of
shots were exchanged and one boy was
carried dead from the street. It is cer-
in that dozens of men ere wounded.
A report has been received from the city
building that one of the officers had both
legs broken and that another was badly
wounded.
Mayor Young is yet in the building and
is directing a call for the militia. All
the ambulances of the city have been
called out, and the excitement has become
intense. The front of the city building
is a total wreck and the fire bells are
ringing.
At 10:45 p. m., Prison- keeper John E.
Washer came from the city building and
was knocked down by a brick. He was
badly injured about the head and had to
receive medical attention.
Children Slain.
It is known that two persons were instantly
killed and another person is dying
at the city hospital. The dead are:
Glen Wade, aged 10 years, shot through
the heart.
John M. Davidson's four- year- old child,
shot dead in a baby carriage.
Fred Voorwick, aged 25 years, is badly
wounded with buckshot. He lives at 43
North street and is now dying at the
hospital. A man named Mull was shot
in the head and also in one of the legs.
It is certain that many more people were
wounded.
Shortly after midnight the mob broke
into a hardware store and stole all the
firearms and ammunition they could find,
including guns, rifles and revolvers, and
proceeded to the city building and opened
fire on the defenders, and finally set fire
to the Columbia Hall, which adjoins the
city building
The flames. are spreading rapidly and
