EORGIA has reason to be proud of having in her service such an official as Sheriff
G Joseph Merrill of Carrollton, who, for the purpose of defending a negro committed to his
charge, fired upon a mob of lynchers and dispersed them.
The attack was of a nature that put a supreme test upon the Sheriff's courage and
fidelity to duty. The negro prisoner had been convicted of the murder of a white boy and sentenced
to be hanged. Upon the day appointed for the execution a reprieve was obtained by an
appeal to the Supreme Court, and the mob that had gathered to witness the execution was rendered
furious by being balked of its victim. It was easy in such a crowd to raise the cry for lynch
law and start an attack upon the jail; but it was not easy for the Sheriff to face the danger. Popular
sentiment in Georgia is not averse to lynching negroes who are but suspected of crime, and
therefore it was inevitable that the mob in this case should have looked for no more than a formal
opposition to the attempt to lynch one who had been tried and convicted. The mob, however, was
mistaken. The Sheriff of Carrollton is an officer who knows his duty and has the courage to fulfill
it. He warned the assailants to retire, and when in defiance they broke into the jail he fired upon
the leaders, killing one and wounding two, driving the others back. vindicating the law and doing
much to redeem Georgia from the stain which so many recent lynchings have put upon her civilization
.
When officials fail in the performance of duty in the face of mob violence, the country is
prompt to condemn and denounce them. Consequently it should be equally prompt to commend
and honor those who do not fail. Moreover from the rapidity with which one lynching follows another
in all parts of the Union it is evident the time when the faithful and the brave who uphold
the law against the violence of mobs should have the recognition due to men who merit the honor
of their countrymen by the noble performance of dangerous duty. Sheriff Merrill has served his
State well. In the fulfillment of his humble office he has done in defense of law an
act of as genuine heroism as could have comparatively been done on the field of battle in defense of the flag.
THE RIGHT KIND OF SHERIFF.
