THE SOUTH
THE OLD SPIRIT STILL AT WORK IN
A dispatch was published in our columns
a short time ago relating the particulars of
an alleged negro conspiracy in Choctaw
county, Alabama. It was said that certain
negroes had formed a plan to murder
all the white men in the county; that a
bundle of papers had been found describing
the whole plot; and that on the
strength of the information thus obtained
a thousand white citizens had assembled,
seized six of the negro ringleaders, and
hanged their alleged leader, one Jack
Turner. The whole story was so incred.
ible on its face that the RECORD UNION at
once pronounced it a fiction, and expressed
the opinion that when the truth was ascertained
the hanging of Tarner would prove
to have been a political crime, perpetrated
by the Bourbons of Choctaw county to rid
themselves of an intelligent and active
colored Republican The details of the
.
case are now at hand and they show that
,
estimate The
our was singularly correct
.
facts are as follows: Jack Turner was the
leading of Choctaw He
negro county. was
a preacher, a man of great native force of
character, a Republican, and a natural
leader of his people. For some time past
it had been the practice of certain Bourbon
planters to compel the colored men who
worked for them to vote the Democratic
ticket. Oa an election day one of these
Bourbons, named Carnathan, hitched up
his horses and went to take his hands
to
the polls as usual. One of them, named
Manning, however, declined to vote the
Democratic ticket saying that he had done!
,
so for years and could not that
, see any
good had come to him from it Carnathan
.
became furious, took Manning into a stable
,
tied him up, and flogged him most brutally
with a leather trace, baving an iron hook
at the end. Manning's back was terribly
cut up, and he was for a long time disabled
. Turner heard of the outrage, and
persuaded the victim to prosecute the ruffianly
Carnathan in the Federal Court, for
the State Courts have no justice for negroes
as yet. Carnathan was indicted, through
the energetic work of Jack Turner and of
,
course he became the bitter enemy of the
man who had brought him to justice.
This, however, might have been passed
over, had not Turner had the audacity
to act on the theory that colored citizens
possess equal political rights in Alabama.
He organized the colored vote in Choctaw
county for the Republican ticket, and he
proved himself so good a politician that at
the election of August 7th the Bourbons
had a majority of only 26. It was evident
that if this active colored leader was not
stopped in his political career he would
carry the county next time. He was
Chairman of the Republican County Committee
, and his word was law with his followers
. So, ten days after the election, a
mob of white scoundrels collected under
cover of night, took Turner and his principal
followers, hanged the former, and
flogged and tortured the latter, under the
thin pretense of a conspiracy. It was, as
we surmised from the first, one of those
cowardly political outrages by the commis.
sion of which the Southern people have
succeeded in retarding their own progress,
keeping capital and enterprise out of their
section, and sustaining in the Northern
mind the profound conviction that they
cannot be trusted with power again in the
councils of the nation. Jack Turner was
as much a martyr as John Brown. He
was engaged in a noble cause. He was
organizing his people politically, and enabling
them to utilize the suffrage conferred
upon them by the nation. For this he was
brutally murdered by a mob of cowardly
white loafers, who, possessing no deserts
of any kind, swagger and strut about their
slovenly holdings, and because they are
lazy and ferocious and dissolute and profane
, flatter themselves that they are
" gentlemen" and the very salt of the
country.
One man like poor Jack Turner is worth
a battalion of such" white trash" as the
mob that murdered him, and until the
better elements of the South realize that
truth, and act upon it; until public opinion
in those States enables justice to be
done in the Courts, and accords to every
honest man, no matter what his color,
equal protection and respect; the South
will continue to languish, will cry in vain
for capital, and will be doomed to appear
at each Presidential
election as the
" shocking example" which justifies the
country in voting down the Democratic
ticket. Here was a man who was doing
nothing which it was not his right to do.
He was simply exercising the political
attributes which are the heritage of every
American was
citizen. He working
towards higher and better things in politics
. He was sustaining and advancing
that Republican policy which every colored
man in the Union must support if he uu-
derstands his own interests. And for this
he was seized at midnight, taken from his
family and friends, and basely murdered
under every accompaniment of insult and
humiliation that the mingled cruelty and
mendacity of his enemies could devise.
The contemptibly silly story which the
Choctaw county Bourbons invented as an
apology for their foul crime shows what
sort of creatures intellectually they are.
Every schoolboy knew that the account of
a negro conspiracy which was alleged to
have been proceeding for six years was a
clumsy fiction. Negroes do not enter into
conspiracies. Negroes do not prepare elab.
orate written accounts of what they intend.
The story of the bundle of papers is even
more preposterous than the other. The
plain truth, now first disclosed, is as we
have stated it. Jack Turners raurdered
by the Bourbons because he was a good
citizen
because he was a bad one. He
killed because he had proved himself
more enlightened, intelligent and energetic
than the worthless white canaille which
itself
arrogates to political in
supremacy
the nest of barbarian- ridden counties which
lies in that section. For Choctaw county
is in the midst of a veritable" ark and
" bloody ground." It adjoins Samter
county, the scene of the Billings.
Ivey assassinations, and that
again
abuta
on Kemper county, Missis
sippi, made infamous
by the
Chisolm massacre. The southwestern
portion of Alabama is in fact nearly all
missionary ground, but the missionaries
who go there ought to be well armed with
self- cocking revolvers and repeating rifles
.
The murder of Turner and the outrage
upon his lieutenants shows that the old
detestable Bourbon spirit still lives at the
South. The same spirit has just been exhibited
at the Arkansas election, where the
Republican voters were driven from the
polis and a was lilled Crimes like
negro.
,
this, however, react with disastrous effect
upon the counties and States which permit
and condone them. The North never will
trust the national party which is in polit.
ical alliance with the South, so long as such
atrocities continue to be perpetrated. For
i only too apparent that under a Demo-
i Administration there would not be
even the pretense of far play toward the
colored voters, but that they would, by
common consent, be reduced to a state of
serfdom terrorism more galling and
intolerable and even than the slavery of old.
