We have before had occasion to speak
in severe and unmistakable terms of the
necessity of punishing the men who pursued
and killed the San Benito horse-
thieves. It would seem that these men,
who are nothing more nor less than murderers
, find apologists in journals which
ought to have regard enough, if not for the
law, at least for the good tame of their
State, to set the seal of condemnation upon
such outrages. But evidently they have
not. For instance, we find the Watson-
ville Transcript quoted as saying:" The
growing impression in San Benito
"
" county that justice cannot be obtained
" by legal process showed itself in the
" lynching of three horse- thieves last
Thursday. If the people over there will
" lynch a few murderers, now, the county
" will become more quiet." Next comes a
journal of which we had warrant to expect
much better things, the Colusa Sun, which,
referring to the reticence of the lynchers
regarding their murder of the thieves,
says:" They knew well enough that they
" would be put to great trouble in going
" through the farce of a trial, and that
then there would be no punishment
** whatever meted out to the thieves, and
" hence the least expensive mode was to
give the Coroner a job. It is not right
"
" that organized society shall tax the in-
" dividual for the protection of his prop-
** erty, and then leave him to punish those
" who take or destroy it, or have no pun-
" ishment inflicted. Whenever a man be-
" comes a confirmed criminal, organized
society ought to break his neck." This
CA
is very fine talk- for border ruffians- but
unbecoming in those who assume to advise
society as to the best methods of attaining
the common desire- security
of life, protection of property and the
pursuit of happiness. There is, in short,
no possible defense to be made for the men
who took their Henry rifles and coolly followed
and shot down the alleged horse-
thieves. They knew, and every ordinarily
intelligent person knows, that in so doing
they committed murder; that" organized
" society has, through its chosen medium
, made horse- stealing grand larceny,
punishable by imprisonment and nothing
more, and he who inflicts a greater punishment
becomes the greater criminal, and
more dangerous to" organized society"
than the horse- thief, while the men who
apologize for and uphold the crime, whether
by word of mouth or in the columns of a
newspaper, become, morally, particeps
criminis and there is no milder form of
putting, it consistent with the truth.
