Anti-Lynch Measures Measures Lynch-
-By COUNCILMAN EARL BROWN BROWN EARL COUNCILMAN
1
After a painstaking investigation the FSI
presented Gov. J. P. Coleman of Mississippi with
the list of names of the mob members who
lynched Mack Parker in Poplarville a few weeks
ago. The Chief Executive of the Sovereign State
of Ignorance and Bigotry stuck the list in his
pocket, announced that he would give it to the
grand jury when it convenes next November and
then caught a plane for Washington to testify
against civil rights legislation now pending in
Congress,
Although Gov. Coleman had bleated boister-
ously against lynching when Parker was spirited
away from his jail cell by the mob and beaten
and shot until he was dead. everyone knew that
he was talking through his wool hat and that
he really was on the side of
the lynchers. If he hadn't
been, he would have ordered
a grand jury convened the
second the FBI gave him, the
list of names of the lynchers,
presented it to them and de-
manded immediate action.
He would not have ducked
out to Washington to defend
lynching and denounce civil
rights legislation.
Parker is gone, his body is
cold and rotting, in the Mississippi earth. but
Coleman is still around making it safe for fu-
ture lynchers to do their dastardly deeds. Not
only is Parker gone but he is almost forgotten.
But as I have said before it wasn't only Parker
but the entire Negro race in the U. S. was
lynched when the mob struck. This is how Cole-
man and his mobsters wanted it and this is how
they have it. Nobody is stopping them.
Killed Section 3
There would be a good chance of stopping
them if there were a federal law that would
guarantee the security of a person from lynch-
ers. Back in 1957 when a civil rights bill was in-
troduced in Congress, it included a section (num-
ber 3 which empowered the federal government
to step in, investigate, take over and prosecute
mobsters charged with violating the personal
security of any citizen. It was aimed directly
at protecting the rights of Negroes in the South.
Because the Southern senators threatened to
filibuster the bill to death, the Republican and
the Northern Democratic senators killed section
3 and passed a weak-tea-with-milk bill which
was intended to get the politicians off the hook
with the Negro voters. The bill isn't worth a
hill of Mississippi mud.
What has made the post-mortem actions in
the Mack Parker case so cynical and hypocritical
is that the FBI quickly moved in when he was
lynched, thoroughly investigated the crime and
came up with the names of the killers. Yet, all
they could do, according to the Department of
Justice, was to turn over the names to the Gov.
of Mississippi, who has been one of the chief
fomenters of lynching and mob violence ever
since he was sworn in. He has inveighed against
school integration and for white supremacy, thus
encouraging the lynchers to do their damndest.
Which they have done.
Civil Rights Bila
Congress now has a number of civil rights
bills in its hopper. The one supported by Presi-
dent Eisenhower has carefully omitted a guaran-
tee of personal security of the individual. So has
the one slipped in by Senate Majority Leader
Lyndon Johnson. On the other hand, the Douglas-
Javits-Celler bill definitely has a section about
personal security of the individual citizen.
In view of the Parker lynching and continu-
ous racial unrest in the South, it is mandatory
that Congress pass the Douglas-Javits-Celler
civil right bill.
Anything less would be nothing at all. If sec-
tion three, the personal security section. had not
been deleted from the civil rights bill of '57, the
U. S. Government would have been able to act
in the Mack Parker case. The persons named by
the FBI would have been arrested and charged
with the crime of lynching. At least justice would
have gotten started. This is more than what
happens in similar cases.
The chances of Congress passing a civil rights
bill with teeth are slim, however. The President.
who has kept tongue in check during the Mack
Parker tragedy, has already declared that he is
for sweetness and light as a means of curing
the color ill. As usual, the Republican Congress-
men vote with the Southern Democrats on all
civil rights bills, and most of the Northern Demo-
crats exclaim it's a shame when a Negro is done
in and let it go at that.
Under the circumstances it would seem that
the only way for a Negro down South to stay
alive is to go into action against his tormentors
himself.
Brown
