Needed A Federal Anti-Lynch Law A Federal Anti- Lynch Law
The withdrawal of the Federal Bureau of Investigation from
the Poplarville, Miss. mob-lynch case clearly demonstrates the
need for anti-lynching legislation. It is recognized that the
agency did an exhaustive investigation into the death of Mack
Charles Parker, but found no evidence that federal law was
violated. Undoubtedly the FBI was working in a limited area of
authority. It is commendable that its findings have been made
available to Gov. James H. Coleman.
It is unmistakeably clear that the power of the FBI must
be broadened to deal with mob violence. Congress must act
speedily to give the Department of Justice the right to seek
federal. indictments of those who would take the law in their
own hands.
It is recognized that already the FBI has moved far be.
yond the 1946 Monroc, Ga., lynching in its investigative me-
thods. It has turned over the names of suspects implicated in
the lynching to the governor. Mississippi could serve the cause
of justice and decency by summoning a special grand jury to
study the FBI's findings. It would bolster the state's sagging
prestige in the United States as well as throughout the civilized
world.
When four persons were lynched in Monroe, no namics
were ever brought to light in the case. In this latter case iden-
tity of the alleged mob leaders is known. Forthright action
should be taken to bring the persons named before a grand
jury and then to trial if the evidence warrants it.
President Eisenhower has held a firm hand over the Poplar.
ville atrocity. He, from the outset, demanded swift actions in
ferretting out the evidence and naming the guilty parties. Now
that his design has materialized, it is purely up to the state of
Mississippi to take the ball to its proper goal.
Sen. Lyndon Johnson, House Speaker Sam Rayburn, GOP
leaders Charles A. Halleck and Everett M. Dirksen, we hope, will
take the lead in enacting civil rights legislation to wipe out tho
disgrace of Poplarville.
President Eisenhower and Atty. Gen. William P. Rogers
acted wisely in putting the investigative arm of the government
into action to ferret out the lynch-mob. What is needed now
is wider jurisdiction to handle such crimes. This can be obtained
through an anti-lynch law with teeth. Lynching ought to be a
federal crime.
