Lynching or Slaying
The Boy Is DeadSlaying
From the Des Moines Register
nised
T
-HE question has been raised
whether the death of Emmett Louis
Till. 15-year-old Chicago Negro who
was slain in Mississippi for whistling at a
white woman, should be classified as
lynching.
a
The governor of Mississippi says that the
boy was the victim of a "straightout mur-
der." The executive secretary of the Na-
tional Association for the Advancement of
Colored People says that he was lynched.
Which is right? The answer lies in how
but the definitions ·
lynching is defined
are not, admittedly, very precise.
It does seem clear that the boy was, at
least, killed in the lynch 'spirit. He was
slain because he had committed an act of
indiscretion that ran counter to Mississippi
ways of life which have almost the sanc-
tion of law. Had he been white, he could.
have done the same thing with impunity,
or at least he most certainly would not
have paid for it with his life.
J
One characteristic of lynching is that
it is punishment outside established chan-
nels of justice. There is no question but
that the death qualified as a lynching in
this one respect.
However, lynchings are most often as-
sociated with mob action. In this case ap-
parently two men and a woman were the
The boy's
only ones directly involved.
death was a slaying rather than a lynch-
ing, if the physical presence of a mob is
an essential part of the definition of a
lynching.
S
Some authoritative sources
say that
lynching in its modern form need not be
perpetrated by a mob. The Encyclopedia
of the Social Sciences defines lynching as
"a vengeful torture and execution of indi-
viduals without trial and regardless of the
existence of regular courts of law. In a
broader sense lynch law is sometimes em-
ployed with reference to any form of ex-
tralegal action for inflicting corporal
punishment."
A well-known sociology text (Race Re-
lations by Dr. Brewton Berry) first defines
lynching as 'execution by a mob without
trial . . . of an individual who is suspected,
convicted or accused of a violation of laws
or mores." But Berry goes on to say that
there are those who feel that "lynching.
has been driven underground and that
certain substitutes have arisen to take its
place." Among these, he lists "murder by
small quiet groups rather than by noisy
mobs."
Lynching originally was associated with
the frontier where there were no estap-
lished courts of law. Then, in Recon-
struction days the Negro or his defender
came increasingly to be the victim and the
South the site for most lynchings.
Statistics on lynching have been kept
since 1882 and in that period there have
been roughly 5,000 lynchings. Ninety per
cent of these have occurred in the South
and 95 per cent of the victims have been
Negroes. Since 1882, Iowa has been the
scene of 19 lynchings. Mississippi leads
the states during the same period with 574.
The Tuskegee Institute in Alabama stop-
ped its annual tabulation of lynchings in
1954 because there had been none to tabu-
late since 1951.
