Lynching Days Are Here Again Again Here Are Days
Fear and anger trouble the hearts of Ne-
gro millions today as the story of an-
other lynching gradually unfolds from the
hazy dispatches of investigators in the
town of Irwinton in the middle of Georgia.
A rumor that the local sheriff had been
attacked by a Negro was apparently
enough to set off a mob, hell-bent on up-
holding the white-supremacy dictatorship
in Georgia.
Neither our fears nor our anger will
save the life of Caleb, Hill nor stop other
Negroes from being lynched. They will
avail us nothing. The white American who
is determined to preserve the lynch law
and protect the "sacred institutions" of the
South must be brought to justice and pun-
ished for his criminal acts. This will never
be done until we get a Federal anti-lynch-
ing law with teeth in it. The full might of
the United States government must be
brought against this evil.
The Congress has been playing fast and
loose with Civil Rights legislation and
while they play, black citizens remain at
the mercy of mad human bloodhounds who
put more value on the color of their skins,
than they do on God and country.
For every Negro that is lynched, thou-*
sands of Negroes are threatened. The
white-supremacists know they can strike
terror in our hearts by the threat of vio-
lence and that threat hangs over the head
of millions of Negroes today. No Negro,
no matter how distinguished, no matter
how great or valuable to the nation, can
escape the shadow of the lynch rope in
the South.
The Dixiecrats in the Congress and their
allies in the North must share in the guilt
for the lynching of Calcb Hill. His blood
is also upon their hands. These Dixiecrats
who have doggedly fought every single
move to give Negroes the protection and
constitutional guarantees of American
citizenship are giving encouragement to
the brutal masters of the lily-white dic-
tatorship. They are defending the right.
of white men to murder and lynch their
darker brothers.
They say the Negroes of the South are
happy. Who is happy in Irwinton today?
How complete can hypocrisy become? Why
are Southern Negroes fighting so desper-
ately for the right to vote and help choose
those by whom they will be governed? In-
deed, why are the Dixiecrats so desperate-
ly fighting to keep the Negro citizen from
the voting booth?
The children of Caleb Hill must concern
us now. They must be permitted to become
first-class American citizens. They must.
be given a share in our vannted democracy.
White and black Americans are challenged
by the lynching of Caleb Hill to join hands
in the great crusade to enact Civil Rights
laws which will protect his children and
give them some hope for the future.
The lynchers of Caleb Hill like the mur-
derers of four Negroes in Monroe, Georgia,
may escape any punishment. The lynchers
of Robert Mallard in Southern Georgia last
year were acquitted while the mobsters
who murdered the two couples in Monroe
were never brought to trial. The Depart-
ment of Justice, the Federal Bureau of
investigation and every law enforcement
agency of the government is rendered help-
less or nearly so because Congress has re-
fused to do its duty. We cannot counte-.
nance this tragic situation and we must
pledge now that either this Congress en-
acts Civil Rights laws or we will get a
new Congress.
.
