The Pickens County Lynching Pickens County Lynching
(From The Lighthouse And Informer) From The Lighthouse And Informer)
Monday morning, South Carolina and the rest of the i
country, set to begin "Brotherhood Week", awoke to find
the brutal lynching of a Pickens County Negro at the hands
of an estimated 35 white men.
Saturday night, near Liberty in Pickens County, a
white taxi driver of Greenville was beaten and robbed by a
colored fare and authorities arrested 35-year-old Willie
Earle of Liberty as a suspect and placed him in the county
jail at Pickens. pending further investigation.
Around 5 A. M. Monday, an armed mob arrived at the
little red jail house at Pickens and at gun point forced
Jailer Ed Gilstrap to surrender the prisoner, locked in a sec-
ond floor cell. About. seven o'clock the stabbed and shot
body of Earle was found just over the Pickens line in
Greenville County. Jailer Gilstrap said some of the mob
which arrived in seven cars, remained behind to patrol the
jail while the major portion of it executed the lynching.
Officially, it was the first lynching in South Carolina
since 1941, according to Tuskegee Institute, when a group
of white men slew Truesdale at Andrews. But there have
been several other similar deaths labeled lynchings since
that time. For example, the Aug. 12, 1946, slaying of James
Walker at Elko was adjudged a lynching by many groups.
The last undisputed lynching in South Carolina occurred in
1927, in Aiken County, when a mob put to death two broth-
ers and a pregnant sister who had been freed on a charge
involving a white man.
Governor J. Strom Thurmond has ordered the state
constabulary into Pickens County and, to remain on the
scene and spare no effort in apprehending the mobbists.
However the effort, it is doubtful that the lynchers will be
rounded up. In the past, lynchers have had full protection
from their neighbors. This was true in the Monroe. Ga.,
lynchings-of-last-year;-it-is-generally
true.
Whether Willie Earle was guilty of the offense, is not
known. It will never be known. Taking the law in their own
hands is deplorable, as much as the lynching itself. And in
Pickens County, where there are 32.000 whites and 5,000
Negroes, there should be disgrace and dishonor. It is not
American to lynch citizens, a fact announced many times.
And, there is no excuse for it.
South Carolina, the state of "white supremacy,” has
the dubious honor of pacing American lynching mobs for
1947.
