PLAIN TALK TALK
Plain Talk Talk
By John M. Lee Lee M. John
JOHN LEE M.
(Continued from Page One-B)
Negroes in Georgia feel that they have i
abandoned to the tender mercy of the Klan and .ts
sympathizers. They are losing faith in the logic of
patient reasoning. They feel that all of the reason-
ing is being done with them, while the mobs prow!
and the death to!! of their people mounts higher
and higher. They cannot tell who will be next and
un wheat flitusy pretext. They are listening to the
arguments forhaz Badership: they are prepar-
in die fighting back, her than with their backs
against a wall, or with tr badies dangling from
MOB ACTION AGAINST NEGROES
INSPIRES LAWLESS ELEMENT
a leafy free.
exala
mass murder is the most horrible
rican cruelty and deceit on record.
It did happen in Georgia, it can happen anywhere
so long as there isn't an effective Federal policy to
track down and punish the mobsters. Lacking con-
fidence in the Federal government, Negroes will re-
sort to protecting themselves outside the law.
This must not be allowed to happen, and it will
not uniess events place the leadership in the hands
of the lawless element,
President Truman has done nothing in the mat-
of the cold-blooded lynching of two Negro men
and their wives by a Georgia mob, that his predeces-
sors in that high office have not done. They, too,
spoke with official aloofness about official investi-
gations of "this and any other crimes of oppression."
OL
They, too, were haunted throughout the terms
their office by the mocking spectre of the civilized
cannibalism of lawless southerners who took the
law into their own hands, and who meted out bloody
justice on the basis of race and color.
Even as Atty. General Clark was carrying out
President's request to "use every resource of the
epartment of Justice," to track down the Georgia
murderers, a mob in Mississippi was flogging an in-
nocent Negro to death and hurling his bruised and
beaten body into a swamp. Southern mobs have no
respect for words, from whatever highly official
source they might come. They are men of action.-
decisive, murderous action. They only understand
the persuasive language of action similar to their
own.
That action must be taken against the terrorist
tactics that were called forth by Talmadge and Bil-
bo in the recent elections in their states, is the only
conclusion that can be drawn now. Unless the gov-
ernment of the United States has the courage and in-
tegrity to move directly to wipe out lynching as an
instrument of policy in the southern part of this
nation, it must be prepared to admit that it has
abandoned the sane, constructive leadership of Negro
Americans, and made it possible for the lawless ele-
ment to take over.
There is a strong and growing force of leader-
ship in the south that has called for an "eye for an
eye," retaliation every time a Negro is lynched. Con-
trary to the commonly-held belief that Negroes are
afraid to die, there are thousands in the south who
have been preparing to surrender their souls for the
privilege of carrying a white face or two along with
them.
A prominent business man in Montgomery, Ala.,
who is realist enough to recognize that Negroes are
growing tired of being hunted and shot down like
game animals, told me of a cache of assorted rifles
and pistols with ammunition to fit, found on a farm
on the outskirts of town. It was from his descrip-
tion, an impressive assortment of death-dealing wea-
pons, and there was some uneasiness in the com-
munity for a good while after the discovery was
made. That farm was the arsenal and the meeting
place for a group of Negroes who planned to meet
murder with murder.
This man told me that he and most of the busi-
ness men in Montgomery gave their money freely to
the Negro churches and that they considered the
ministers the real leaders of the Negro population.
He mentioned a minister who is now pastoring a
Los Angeles church as having been a force for great
good in the community.
Just how long this gentleman and the Presi-
dent of the United States expect the ministers and
the other reasoning leaders of Negro communities
to be able to cope with the growing restlessness of
their people in the face of brutal lynchings is a
question that must be answered in a hurry. Certain-
ly, it must be before may more lynchings take place,
for the temper of the Negro in the south is chang-
ing for the worse.
(Continued on Page 3-B)
