Mississippi Defiant Defiant
Just some few weeks ago the women of.
Mississippi made what looked like an
earnest effort to focus public attention of
the state upon the horrible barbarity with
which its people were cursed in the form of
lynching. This flare-up followed the lynch-
ing of a Negro at Clarksdale after a jury
had acquitted him of a charge of murder.
The Governor and the county prosecutor
promised vigorous action against the al-
leged perpetrators of the deed, who were
arrested and indicted for murder. The trial
jury did the rest, it simply turned them
loose, all except one or two against whom
the solicitor moved for a nolle prosse. And
the blighting curse upon the commonwealth
wound up in a judicial farce.
Just recently, a number of lawyers,
judges, church leaders and others of high
standing in public life in Mississippi ex-
pressed forceful sentiments against lynch-
ing which were compiled in a pamphlet and
circulated inside and outside of the state in
an effort to bring public sentiment to bear
against the hideous pastime in the benighted
Delta Commonwealth.
I
Mississippi lynches again-this time a
white man-i in the most revolting fashion,
if one lynching can be more revolting than
another. The mob fastens the noose about
its victim's neck and forces him to jump
from a bridge and hang himself. No one
can say the deed added to Mississippi's
shame for Mississippi cannot be shamed.
No one can say the escutcheon of the state
was further blackened by the henious crime
of this mob, for Mississippi's escutcheon long
ago was obscured in the blackness of its
ignorance and savagery. The state is sim-
ply hopeless; the tobacco-spitting,
soaked ignoramuses are in the saddle and
nothing short of a federal anti-lynching law
backed by the whole resources of the gov-
ernment will ever bring it to its senses.
rum-
But we are not surprised because a Mis-
It is
sissippi mob lynched a white man.
simply a matter of the turn of the coat from
lynching a black to lynching a white, or
from lynching an ignorant peasant to lynch-
ing a judge on the bench. One merely pre-
cedes and invites the other. When the au-
thorities winked at the lynching of a Negro
nondescript at Clarksdale, they then and
there invited and encouraged the lynching
of the white man. Lawlessness begets law-
lessness, and the proposed federal anti-
lynching measure is not race or class legis-
lation at all, but legislation proposed for
the preservation of the liberties of the Amer-
ican people. State rights never were higher
than the life, liberty and rights of the in-
dividuals who make up the states, and when
the states are so palpably disinclined to pro-
tect life as Mississippi repeatedly shows it-
self to be, it is time the federal government
which vouchsafes protection to all to step
in and protect it.
Mississippi is irredeemable of itself. It
is sorely in need of national aid for the
preservation of its laws and the life of its
people. Will Congress accept the challenge?
