FAILURE AT HATTIESBURG AT HATTIESBURG
EDITOR'S NOTE-The following editorial from the 8t. Louis
Etar-Times presents such a pointed observation that entirely agress
with the position of The Pittsburgh Courier that it is reproduced
here as our lead editorial. It is one of the strongest editorials
to come out of the South-Central States and we congratulate the
Star-Times on its forthright stand.
The Federal Government's first effort to attack lynch-
ing by prosecution under the civil rights laws failed Sat-
urday when a Hattiesburg (Miss.) jury acquitted three
defendants accused of complicity in the lynching of How-
ard Wash, a Negro. But there is a stain against America
and the State of Mississippi which is not wiped out by
this verdict.
Howard Wash was a convicted murderer. A jury
of white men, finding him guilty of killing his white
employer, ; nevertheless had felt that mitigating circum-
stances barred the death penalty. That verdict, con-
sidering the social system of the South, spoke eloquently.
Yet while Wash was awaiting sentence to life imprison-
ment, a mob broke into the jail and lynched him.
Does anyone doubt that this Negro's rights as a
human being were violated by the mob? The courts were
flouted, the processes of justice were overturned, and
verdict of a white man's jury was destroyed.. Equal
protection of the laws became a meaningless phrase,
twisted and mocked by lynchers.
The Federal Department of Justice intervened in
this case only after decades of experience showing that
State law is powerless to punish a lynch mob. We have
had proof of that ugly fact in Missouri. Now the Fed-
eral Government itself has failed at Hattiesburg. A
Federal district judge ruled that the government was
within its rights in bringing the action, but attorneys
for the defense waved the bloody shirt of Civil War
memories, cried out about States' rights, and a local
jury acquitted the local defendants.
The jury acquitted one of the accused although his
signed confession, admitting to the FBI that he had
been a member of the mob, was introduced in evidence,
and despite his failure to take the stand, in the presence
of the jury, to repudiate the confession or submit to
government cross-examination.
Not Mississippi alone, but the whole United States,
is disgraced in the eyes of the world when a human being
can be lynched and his mob murder go unpunished. The
debacle at Hattiesburg is a sign of the enormous dis-
tance we still must travel before the theoretical values
of our democracy are made a reality.
