.. AN EDITORIAL.. AN EDITORIAL ..
KID-LYNCHERS: FEDERAL ACTION NEEDED
TO HALT LYNCHING ATROCITIESLYNCHERS
By ALBERT
(Reprinted
DEUTSCH
from PM)DEUTSCH
The unspeakable act perpetrated on a Mississippi bridge Monday
should bring the sting of shame to every decent American. When a
race-mad mob of morons 'lynches a couple of 14-year-old kids, one
begins to wonder if even a colored infant in its crib is immune from
the perverted wrath of such sorry speciments of homo sapiens.
The news dispatch follows the well-grooved pattern of lynching
stories we have come to expect from the benighted area which boasts
a John E. Rankin as one of its representatives in Congress:
The two boys, charged with the attempted rape of a 13-year-old
white girl, were taken from jail by a mob of “unidentified men,” who
"overpowered" the "surprised" city marshal after he answered a knock
on the door.
The dispatch tells us that'City Marshal Debbs was guarding the.
jall alone when it was stormed by the mob. It adds, significantly, that
six lynchings had previously occurred at the same bridge where the
two boys were hanged.
It is hard to believe that the marshal was greatly surprised by
the visit of his lynch-bent visitors. It is hard to believe that ade-
quate protection couldn't have been given the two boys if the police
authorities had wished sincerely to see justice done.
The whole affair is a stench to the nostrils of every law-abid-
ing citizen with a sense of fair play. Lynching is execrable under
any circumstance. But when a mob deliberately draws a pair of
14-year-olds from jail for a lynching dee, it hits an abysmal low
in human conduct.
Lynch-rule can't be localized. A civilized nation can't tolerate it
anywhere within its border. In this great war crisis it becomes not
only a humanitarian, but a political and military problem.
Every lyncher in that party deserves a personal presentation
of the Iron Cross from Herr Hitler himself. He deserves honorary
membership in Der Fuehrer's Black Corps, for he has done more
for the Nazi cause than a battalion of stormtroopers.
We may be sure that the Gobbels propaganda mill is already broad-
casting the incident to every corner of the world. The Nazis have
always exploited lynching in America as a major propaganda weapon
against us. When our scholars tear apart the Nazi race myth, the
Hitlerites point to our own lynching record. When we express horror
at Nazi atrocities, they throw back the taunt, "Look who's talking!"
Every detail of every lynching is broadcast by the Nazi radio
stations to the colored peoples of the world, who represent the majority |
of the human population and include some of our most valuable allies.
We'd only be kidding ourselves if we brushed off this type of propa-
ganda as ineffective.
The Mississippi child-lynching shows once more that Federal
action is needed to blot out this curse. It is high time to reviva
" and pass the anti-lynching bill introduced by Rep. Joseph A. Gara-
gan of New York.
·
The Gavagan bill makes it a felony for any State or local police
officer to fail to use "all diligent effort" to protect any person in his
custody from mob violence. It also holds localities liable to civil suits
in Federal courts for lynchings within their borders.
Every lyncher should be vigorously sought out and punished as
a murderer, and a yellow one at that. In war-time, he is worse than
a Nazi saboteur.
