Sentiment In Sikeston
Favors Brutal LynchingSikeston
January) 28. edition of Times Star' Louis St.1
(Editor's Note: The following editorial is reprinted from the
St. Louis Star Times' edition of January 28.)
C. L. Blanton, self-described as the "pole-cat editor"
of Sikeston, Mo., is not one of those who feels that his
community has been disgraced and shamed by the brutal
lynching of a Negro last Sunday. Says Mr. Blanton in his,
newspaper column:L.
"The mobbing of the Negro, Cleo Wright, Sunday
forenoon, was an unfortunate incident, but was de-
served. Here were two women whose husbands were
in the army, and an ex-convict who entered their bed-
room and attacked with a knife one of these women,
then cut an officer. It was the feeling of those near
the City Hall Sunday, where the mob formed, that it
was their duty to protect the wives of those soldier
boys, and that was the thing that influenced the men.
This should be a warning for bad Negroes to stay out
of Sikeston. We have a large Negro population who are
law-abiding and good citizens and they will be given
protection in every way. Over in Sunset Addition some
bad Negroes have caused trouble at times in the past,
much to the regret of the good element, but this in-
cident should be a solemn warning for the night prowl-
ers to leave the community or be dealt with in a like
manner."
The “pole-cat´editor" who expressed these sentiments
happens to be the father of Prosecuting Attorney David E.
Blanton of Scott County.
Prosecuting Attorney David Blanton cannot be held
accountable for the views of "Pole-Cat Editor” C. L. Blan-
ton, and the latter's comments are printed merely to illus-
trate the attitude of some influential Sikeston citizens
against which Prosecuting Attorney Blanton must labor
as he conducts the "vigorous investigation” he has pledged
to find and punish the mobsters.
It is appropriate, however, to ask Prosecuting Attorney
Blanton when he will accept Governor Donnell's offer of
special assistance from the state attorney general's office.
The prosecuting attorney is well aware that he is encoun-
tering obstructionism, and that a substantial part of com-
munity sentiment opposes punishment of the lynchers. If
he did not recognize this fact at first, must have become
clear to him as he read the words of the "pole-cat editor."
The least Prosecuting Attorney Blanton can do to show
his own integrity as an official and his determination to
restore the dignity of the law in Scott County is to wel-
come the outside unprejudiced help which the governor has
offered.
Why doesn't he do it?
(
