CS
THE NEW YORK AGE.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1893.
BURNED TO DEATH!
Last week the civilized world was
shocked by the horrible details of the tor-
turing and burning to death of an Afro-
American at Paris, in the State of Texas,
on the charge of assaulting and murdering
a child three years old, because the father
of the child had hounded and persecuted
the man charged with the crime. Fifteen
thousand people, citizens of Lamar county,
took part in the horrible crime of torture
and incineration, so that they must be
charged by the civilized world as re-
sponsible for the brutality, which could
not be matched in a cannibal community.
We dismiss the charge of assaulting the
baby as too absurd to be entertained for a
moment. The man SMITH had been perse-
cuted by the man VANCE, and the former
murdered the child of the latter, a crime
which when hitched upon SMITH would
have condemned him to the gallows.
Within the past twelve months another
man, subsequently proven to be innocent
of the charge lodged against him, was
burned to death by a mob at Texarkana,
in the State of Arkansas, and within the
past two years a man was burned to death
by a mob in the State of Kentucky. Two
days after the Paris burning four men were
lynched in Virginia suspected of murdering
two white men. And an average of one
black man a day has been lynched in the
Southern States since the Paris horror on
the first of the month.
We have reached a point in this South-
ern mob diabolism when the good name
and reputation of the United States are dis-
credited throughout the civilized world.
It has ceased to be a question of human
justice and the supremacy of law for the
Afro-American, and has become a ques-
tion of vindication of the good name and
reputation of the United States in the esti-
mation of decent mankind. The Republic
cannot permit such deeds to be done with-
out being regarded as a barbarous and un-
christian Nation. It has ceased to be a
question for the State to decide; it has
been remanded to the high court of public
opinion of the people of all the States by
the brutality of the Southern States.
.We insist that the administration of the
laws having been suspended and the ad-
ministration of the State Governments of
the Southern States having become hope-
lessly demoralized, that the only solution
of the awful condition of anarchy is to re-
mand the Southern States to a territorial
form of government. We make this propo-
sition an issue.
