OPEN LETTER
TO GOVERNOR TALMADGE
OF GEORGIA
To his excellency, Governor Talmadge, chici
executive of the state of Georgia: "Dear Sir:
Newspaper dispatches bearing date of Septem-
Ter 28, disclose information that one Louis
Harris (colored) was lynched ₂ V
in your state
ad the crime committed by him was that of
*being drunk."Talmadge
"Since you appear to be a candidate for the
Presidency of the United States upon a much
publicised platform, saving the Constitution,
we are interested in knowing if the public pol-
icies of the state of Georgia with respect to
human life will be your same policies with re-
spect to
human life in the event of your cle-
vation to the presidency of the nation?
"In analyzing this particular lynching which
occurred at Vienna, Ga., the lynchers comprised
the sober citizens of the community, and this
inspires the belief that the brutal ceremony wa
performed by the better element. We further
assume. Governor, that the better element of
your state typis
your views and opinions,
because you are their leader.
"We have observed with much interest your
tocent activities while traveling through the
Bast. North and West, urging upon the people.
sacredness of our Constitution. For this
de commend you. We are interested in know-
lug, Governor, il the Constitution to which you
“ofer in your speeches is to your way of think-
ng the same Constitution in spirit as was ap-
of your state to Louis
ied by the citize?
Jarris?
"It is difficult, Governor Talmadge, to di-
urge the conduct of the followers from that
i the leader, and we assume that it is your
ish and desire to be regarded as the leader
The very fact.
14
evernor, that
of your state.
he broader scope and larger view of your
resent interpretation of the Constitution oc.
asion your presence from time to time before
arying audiences, obligates you to explain
ally your attitude on lynchings in your state.
"You are addressing from time to time for-
vard-looking people of your own racial iden-
ity who do not embrace the sadistic viewpoint
o prevalent in the South.
hese questions are also important to us as a
acial identity. Hence we would be pleased
to have you give some public expression as to
chether or not in your interpretation of the
Constitution, black people are to be made an
xception.
The answers to
"In other words. Governor, just tei us what
"re your views on the question of human
ights. Your silence on the many lynchings in
our state is not a hopeful sign to us as a mi-
If for social, religious or polit-
ority group.
cal reasons you seek to justify lynchings in
ieorgia, how are we to know in the event that
ou do become President of the United States,
hat the same influences would not control
ou?
"We shall, Governor Talmadze, ask an early
Please include in your pub-
reply from you.
ie statement whether you believe that black
people are entitled to a fair trial by indge and
ary as are other citizens. This letter, Gover-
or Talmadge. is addressed to you in spirit
and signed by fifteen million black people. Wi
zou answer?"
vse
