Automatic Changes Of Venue
Suggested In Lynching Trials
}
State's Attempts to Punish Leaders of Mob That
Lynched Lloyd Warner Fail Alexander Urges
Change of Venue.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 15-(CNS)-The State's attempt
to punish leaders of the mob that lynched Lloyd Warner,
Negro youth, at St. Joseph, Mo., the night of November 28,
collapsed at St. Joseph on Monday, February 5th. As a re-
sult of that and other failures to punish participants in
lynching ogres, Dr. W. W.. Alexans
der of Atlanta, Ga., director of the
Commission on Interracial Coopera-
tion, urges a general move for state
legislation to provide automatic
changes of venue in trials of men
accused of lynching.
Dr. Alexander said: "Buch a pro-
cedure offers the only hope of
bringing yachers to justice, be-
cause local courts and juries just!
will not convict lynchèrs.”
Dr. Alexander's statement was oc-
casioned by announcement that
there would be no further prosecu-
tion of persons indicted as alleged
leaders of the St. Joseph, Mo.,
lynching mob of last November 28,
after the acquittal of the first man
tried. He commented: "This is the
old story over again of the failure
of courts to convict in cases of mob
violence... In the 1,880 recorded
lynchings from 1900 to 1930 inclu-
sive, convictions were secured in
only 12 instances, or less than 1 per
cent. Local courts and juries just
will not convict lynchers, even in
the rare cases where officers have
the courage to make arrests and
grand juries the courage to indict."
All pending cases will be dis-
missed as a result of the acquittal
by a jury Saturday night of Walter
Garton, one of seven men charged
with first degree murder in connec-
tion with the lynching at St. Jo-
seph, Mo.
In making the nouncement at
Jefferson City, Attorney General
Roy McKittrick sald the case
against Garton was the strongest.
Charges to be dropped include
malicious destruction of property
in connection with the damage to
the county jail when the mob
fought back National Guardsmen,
forced its way inside and took the
youth from the sheriff,
