Thursday, December 21, 1933.
THE NEW LYNCHING EXCUSE
O
NCE upon a time, not so very long ago.
the mobocrats attempted to justify lynch-
ing on the theory that "lynching Negroes
was the only way it was possible to to protect
white womanhood from the lust of colored
3101.
That was the excuse heralded in the press.
From every political rostrum throughout the
Southland would-be office holders shouted, "I
would lead a mob to protect white women-
the flower of this State-from fiendish Ne-
grocs." And newspapers in the North accepted
the excuse and gave it support.
But Southern white women, tired of being
the "goat" for the bestial pastime of their
sponses, proclaimed that their virtue needed no
such protection. They dug into the records and
found that the majority of lynchings were not
even the result of ALLEGED assaults on white
It was established as an irrefutable
fact that lynching was the result of many things
ther than for the protection of the honor of
Southern women; Negroes are being lynched
for talking back to white men and other such
minor provocations.
women.
Since the white women have proclaimed to
the world that they do not need mobs to pro-
tect their honor; and since that sham has been
shattered the lynchers have invented another
excuse to justify their acts of barbarism. They
now claim that the slowness of the law is re-
sponsible for lynching. That the criminal law
takes too long to operate, therefore, the mob
takes the law into its own hands.
This excuse is being accepted and given
widespread support by those who should know
better. The slow machinery of the criminal
courts is even less responsible for lynchings
than the now abandoned theory of protecting
white women. The criminal procedure of Amer-
ican courts was established to insure justice for
those accused of crime. Those who are intelli-
geut understand that the so called delays of the
courts have saved many innocent man from
death. At the same time some who are guilty
have escaped-but after an innocent man has
been killed or spent long terms in prison it is
impossible to rectify the mistake or repair the
damage done through haste.
It is possible during the hysteria following
a crime for an innocent victim to be connected
with it by a chain of circumstances which, un-
explained, points to his guilt. But given time
he can prove his innocence.
Where a Negro is accused of a serious crime
against a white than or woman his successful
prosecution is as certain as anything can be.
Certainly this is true in the South where the
majority of lynchings occur. The judge, the
jury, all of the officials are white and have cer-
tain fixed ideas before the trial begins. Under
such circumstances even an innocent Negro has
not got a chance. (Take the Scottsboro cases
as an illustration.) Then, how can it be reason-
ed that the law is too slow? It is a lame excuse,
and has only been heard since Southern white
women shattered the age old one concerning
the protection of their virtue.
their friends must get a better
hope to justify lynching.
The mobs and
reason if they
