N.A.A.C.P. DRAFTING NEW ANTI-LYNCHING BILL BILL LYNCHING ANTI- NEW DRAFTING
COMMITTEE SAYS
IT IS ONLY WAY
TO STOP THE MOB
Bill Will Be Introduced In January, 1934-Will Have
Plenty "Teeth."
NEW YORK, Nov. 2-A new federal anti-lynching bill
is being drafted by the legal committee of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People, it was
announced here. The bill will be introduced in the next
Congress which convehes in January, 1934.
-:18:— —
"It is plain to everyone that the states are unwilling unwilling are states plain to It is
or unable to stop lynching." said'
Walter White, N. A. A C. P. sec-
retary. "The officers of the law
either aid the lynchers actively or
else stand idly by and let the mob
do its work. Governors order in-
vestigations which never discover
anything. Grand juries and no evi-
dence for indictments. In the two
Tuscaloosa, Ala. lynchings of Aug.
12 and the Armwood lynching in
Frincess Anne, Md., Oct. 18, we
have the plainest proof that ac-
tion by the federal government is
needed if lynching is to be stamped
out.
ac-
"We call upon every branch of
the N. A. A. C. P. and every or-
ganized group of colored people in
every community to test their Con-
gressmen and Senators first
cording to their willingness to vote
for a federal anti-lynching bill. No
man who refuses to vote for such
a bill can be a true representative
of Negro voters, no matter what
else he stands for. We urge them
to write or call in person upon
their Congressmen before the No-
vember election and secure their
pledges to vote for such a bill.
"A personal investigation of the
Armwood lynching by Louis L.
Redding of Wilmington, Del., mem-
ber of the N. A. A. C. P. legal com-
mittee reveals anew the necessity
for this legislation. This associa-
tion is intensifying a nation-wida.
relentless campaign on lynching
and additional details will be an-
nounced from time to time."
The N. A. A. C. P. also urges
all individuals everywhere to write
President Roosevelt and urge the
federal government to stop lynch-
ing.
