MENCKEN AND THE MARYLANDERS AND THE MARYLANDERS
Tappears from our metropolitan dailies, that Mr.
Mencken of the Baltimore Sun and his friends across
the Chesapeake Bay have been exchanging courtesies
anent the lynching of a Negro by an eastern shore
mob. In his own typical fashion, Mr. Mencken has catalogued
the Marylanders along with a few southern states having out-
standing records for lynching. Not only did the Marylanders
take offense at some of Mr. Mencken's criticisms, but the Vir-
ginians close by decided that Mr. Mencken included them, and
they likewise rose to rebuke Mr. Mencken in language not found
in the New Testament, to say the least.
It appears that a lynching took place in Salisbury several
weeks ago. Quite a little stir was made as a result of the mob
violence. It was also reported in high places that the members
of the mob were well known to the local authorities. To make
the records read smoothly, the Governor is reported to have
issued the customary orders to apprehend the lynchers. What
Mr. Mencken complained of was the evident lack of inclination
on the part of the local authorities either to carry out the
orders of the Governor or to make any attempt to apprehend
the guilty. In short, the lynchers decided that the party was!
a success and nothing more was to be said or done about it.
Mr. Mencken referred to the community responsible for
the lynching in language typically his own. He certainly did
not refer to them in complimentary terms. In fact, he actually
called them nicknames, not altogether inapplicable either, and
this originated the exchange of courtesies.
It is said that the Marylanders decided to boycott Balti-
more business houses as a retaliation. It is reported that busi-
ness amounting to over $100,000 per day was discontinued with
certain Baltimore business houses. When this method did not
discourage Mr. Mencken nor destroy his vocabulary, an ex-
change of vituperation was inaugurated. What those white
people said about each other gives the rest of us an idea of
what they actually are. They called each other by their right
nemès, evidently, if we are to judge from the yelping from
across the bay. The battle of words has ceased and, to all
appearances, the exchange of epithets has been discontinued,
but the point made by Mr. Mencken still stands: namely, that
no one, so far as we have been able to learn, has ever been
arrested as a result of the lynching. We are of the opinion
that Mr. Mencken knows his Marylanders.
į
