LET'S STOP COMPLAINING AND GET BUSY BUSY GET AND COMPLAINING STOP
1934 is one week old. The race complained about
many things in 1933. The question now is, whether
we are going to stop complaining and start doing
something, or whether we are just going through
the new year with the same long sad story.
it may be true that we are at the bottom of the
economic ladder in this country; it is a fact that
we are the most frequently lynched people in this
land; no one can deny that we suffer greatly from
segregation solely because of our color, but com-
plaining will not remedy or improve any or either
of these.
Complaints not backed up with appropriate ac-
tion, prove to be nothing more than the mopings of
a spineless and defeated people. Many of the ills
from which we now suffer will succumb to real
vigorous action.
The reason we are at the bottom of the economic
ladder is because we are making no concerted effort
to climb higher. We are shot down like birds be-
cause as a group we fail to protect ourselves. We
are segregated because we accept it complacently.
It is profitable to other people to do all these 1
things to us. We are kept poor because others
find it profitable to rob us. We are lynched be-
cause it furnishes in many cases an alibi for white 1
criminals and also amusement for those who find j
it a ready excuse to revert to barbarianism. We are i
segregated because it affords others an opportunity c
to furnish us inferior service and yet charge
tortionate prices for same.
ex- |1
When any and all of these become profitless, the f
ones who are carrying them on will soon stop try- (
ing to do them. If Negroes refused to patronize h
stores not giving him the same advantage given s
others as to employment, many new jobs would b
practically be opened over night. If every time a
mob lynched a Negro there was a sure retaliatory C
act, lynchings would soon pass out. If Negroes p
stayed out of segregated or separate theaters and
other public places, these will rapidly close up.
The power to do all of these things is now in the
hands of the race. A united program, race loyalty, a
concerted action and intelligent leadership. Let's f
get busy in 1934 and use all of these to our own
advancement and stop waiting for the other fellow A
to do something for us.
