OTHER PAPERS SAY PAPERS SAY
A MISSOURI LYNCHING MISSOURI LYNCHING
New York Titnes! York Titnes!
Nodaway county, Missouri, where a Negro
was lynched yesterday for murder of a white
woman, is not in that section of the state
which often has been described ironically as
"more southern than the South." It is in the
northern tier of counties. just below the Iowa
line and within a few miles of where the Mis-
souri river separates Missouri from Kansas
and Nebraska, Agriculturally it is one of the
richest of all Missouri counties. It is dotted
with thriving villages.. Its school facilities
are good. It boasts that it adult population
is "100 per cent English reading." In na-
tional elections it commonly gives a majority
to the Republican ticket.. Its capital, Mary-
ville, is the seat of a state teachers' college.
This town, incidentally, takes a place in re-
cent literature as the scene or Homer Croy's
"West of the Water Tower."
Any stranger driving along \ihe highways
of Nodaway county will be impressed by the
evidences of thrift. prosperity and progress
of this prairie region. It has a settled look.
It has large and well kept farmhouses, huge
barns and silos. Its live stock discloses care
in selection and breeding. Its villages are neat
and orderly. It is a land with a population
which holds itself in high esteem.
The lynching was deliberate. The assault
and murder the mob sought to avenge were
committed several weeks before the lynching.
At the time of their perpetration the mob
failed to get possession of the Negro. It
awaited opportunity.
Even after extraordi-
pary precautions had been taken by the au-
thorities to protect the prisoner, the lynchers
behaved as if they were sure of a chance to
carry out their plot. When it came they seized
the man, marched him to the scene of crime,
interrogated him as to the murder, chained him
to the roof of the schoolhouse, in which the
woman was slain, poured gasoline on the floors
and walls, chopped holes in the roof to insure
ventilation and then set fire to the structure.
waiting quietly until the building and Negro
had been destroyed.
Additional depmy sheriffs and two squads of
militiamen had been told off to assist in guard-
ing the prisoner, yet this cold-blooded mob ac-
complished its purpose without loss of a man.
What will the authorities of Missouri do to
vindicate their state from the reproach of this
ghastly affair?
