The President Speaks Speaks President
P
RESIDENT HOOVER has denounced lynching in
a letter to the National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People. His letter was
written in response to a request made by Walter White,
acting secretary of the association, for a statement from
the White House regarding the recent recrudescence of
lynching. The President said: "Every decent citizen
must condemn the lynching evil as an undermining of
1
the very essence of both justice and democracy.
THE PRESIDENT has spoken none too soon, and
it is to be hoped that he will speak again, not only in
letters to private citizens or organizations, but in a
message to Congress. Since Mr. White's letter to the
President was written another lynching has occurred
at Tarboro, N. C. It is well for lynchers and conniving
local authorities to know that the President of the
United States is resolutely and actively opposed to
lynching.
THE EVIDENCE gathered by Walter White con-
cerning the double lynching at Marion, Ind., indicates
that the local authorities, instead of preventing the
lynching, did their best to incite it. The blood-stained,
bullet-pierced shirt of the man the colored youths had
murdered was hung out of the front window of the
Marion City building, where the passing crowds could
not help seeing it, the chief of police stating that it
was hung there to dry so that it might be used as evi-
dence in the trial. When the sheriff found that the
tires of cars in the police garage had been deflated and
the tanks drained of gasoline he made no effort to get
another car to remove the prisoners to places of safety.
The steel doors of the jail was not locked; in fact, one
of them did not close, and there were no keys to them.
•
THAT THE MARION LYNCHING was purely
racial and not for assault or murder is proved by the
fact that in the same jail with the colored prisoners were
two white men charged with attacking women and an-
other charged with an atrocious murder, while two
other white men were at liberty on bail, pending trial
for attacking women. None of these men was bothered
by the mob.
A PARALLEL case is that of William Horrner, the
white man charged with attacking girl campers in the
woods near Stony Point, N. Y. After eluding posses
for five days he was captured last Friday. There was
no talk of killing him outright or burning him at the
stake, no mobbing or threat of mobbing; he was not
even beaten by the police. Every fair-minded person
will admit that in the United States a colored man is
lynched for the crime of being a Negro.
IT IS INDEED high time for a courageous Pres-
ident to denounce lynching and tell the world that he
will not stop at mere denunciation.
