CS
CS
the better that the mob which nangedrager, thinking that anot..c.
disloyalist was about to escape, took the matter into their own
hands. The mayor of Collinsville summed up his opinion by saying
"This deplorable act merely emphasizes the necessity for a drastic
law to apply in such cases."
Here is a new excuse offered by a weak-kneed official in pallia-
tion of lynching-The mob lynched its victim because of the insuffi-
But
ciency of laws against the crime of which he was accused.
what about the thousands of Negroes that have been lynched? In
each case of guilt there was plenty of law covering the crime. Take
the revoltingly atrocious instance which happened at Estill Springs,
Tenn., only a few weeks ago. The victim was accused of murder.
After he was captured by the mob, he was first tortured with red-hot
irons and then burned alive. The laws of the state of Tennessee
provide that murder shall be punished by death; and there is not the
least doubt that if Jim McIlheron had been tried by a court he would
have had the full penalty imposed upon him.
Lynching mobs are not actuated by any desire to uphold justice
and the law; they are actuated by sheer devilishness and contempt
for law. It is not unlikely that in the mob which lynched Jim Mc-
Ilheron at Estill Springs there were unpunished murderers, men
who had killed their man and escaped both trial and punishment.
At any rate, after the lynching almost every white man in the com-
munity of Estill Springs was a murderer, a brutal, fiendish murderer
What city, county and state officials need to suppress lynching
is not more laws, but the sense of duty and the courage to enforce
the existing laws. No mob will face an officer determined to do his
duty.
The trouble is that in many communities there is a disregard
of law on the part of the people and the officials. There are wide
sections of the country in which there is not a single officer with the
courage to enforce the law he has sworn to uphold, and which he is
being paid to uphold. There are wide sections of the country in
which some excuse to lynch a Negro is seized upon whenever the
desire is felt for a little extra excitement.
Naturally, the frequency with which Negroes may be lynched
with impunity dulls the excitement, and the blood lust of the mobs
will begin to demand white victims.
The red stain of lynching has been growing deeper and bigger
for thirty years; and if something is not done to wipe it out, it will
cover the whole country. And to wipe it out, we do not need more
laws against crimes. What we need is a strong Federal law against
mobs.
Such a law has been introduced by Representative Dyer, Repub-
lican, of Missouri. Mr. Dyer has had such a bill in mind ever
since the East St. Loras riots. There is a chance, small it is true
THE NEW YORK AGE, SATURDAY, APRIL 13, 1918.
VIEWS and REVIEWS
JAMES W. JOHNSON, CONTRIBUTING EDITOR
ov
LAWS FOR LYNCHING.
At Collinsville, Ill., on Friday of last week a mob of several
hundred "loyalists" took Robert Prager, an alleged pro-German,
from his hiding place in the city hall and hanged him to a tree just
outside of the town.
Prager is said to have addressed a meeting in an adjoining town
the night before, and it was alleged that he had talkekd Sosialism
and had made disloyal remarks. Members of the mob followed him
and captured him in Collinsville. He was compelled to march
down the main street barefoot and draped with an American flag.
The police rescued him and hid him in the city hall basement. Later
the mob demanded the prisoner and when refused rushed the police
and dragged him out, led him away with a noose around his neck
and hanged him.
Subsequent dispatches state that no evidence of disloyalty on
Prager's part has been established. He was a miner and was said
to have had his first papers of citizenship. But with this man's in-
nocence or guilt of disloyalty we are not just here concerned. If he
was guilty, he should have been punished according to the law.
We want merely to consider the position taken by the mayor of Col-
linsville and the remedy suggested by him to prevent such acts of
violence.
The mayor declared that he would launch no investigation on
his own accord, but that he stood ready to co-operate with the state
and county officials. He stated further that he had sent a telegram
to Senator Overman, chairman of the Senate Judicial Committee,
urging the immediate passage of the law imposing a severe penalty
for disloyalty. It was his opinion, he said, that the action of the
mob was 'the neglect of the Federal Government to furnish this pen-
alty. He cited the fact that a week before the lynching a man
charged with disloyalty had been arrested, but because of insufficient
evidence under the present law he had to be released. He expressed
