Hell in Texas Texas in
T
HE LYNCHING at Sherman, Texas, was a strik-
ing demonstration of the dangers of mob rule.
The danger is not confined to the immediate vic-
tims, to the poor Negroes who are often tortured into
false confessions. It poisons the whole community. At
Sherman the mob not only lynched a man; it destroyed
the court house, burned a section of the town and com-
mitted a treasonous attack upon United States soldiers.
The state was compelled to declare martial law, and
the mob still threatens to attack the county jail, where
some of the mob leaders are imprisoned. Confronted
with such conduct in their elders, how can the children
of that town grow up with any real respect for law?
WHEN BERNARD SHAW was asked why he did
not visit America he said that he did not want to be
lynched. Americans resented the remark as a gratu-
itous insult; but it struck straight at the root of mob
rule. Shaw realized that under mob rule no man, black
or white, is safe. He knew, also, that mob rule could
not persist if the constituted authorities made a deter-
mined attempt to stop it.
SUCH AN ATTEMPT was certainly not made in
the Sherman lynching. In fact, it might be said that
the authorities encouraged the mob by announcing that
they would not deal drastically with it. The mob actu-
ally murdered the man; but the one who sealed his
doom was none other than Dan Moody, Governor of
the state. When the mob was storming the court house
a telegram was sent to Governor Moody. In answer he
telegraphed: "Hold the Negro if possible, but don't
shoot anybody." Captain Hamer of the Texas Rangers.
said: "This means that the mob will get the Negro."
Assured of its immunity from shooting, the mob went
ahead.
INSTEAD OF STAYING the hand of the mob that
was violating the law, Governor Moody stayed the
hand of the troops who were defending the law. His
order prevented them from repulsing the mob. His atti-
tude encouraged the mob to lynch the Negro and de-
stroy a public building. He could not have done any
more to burn that court house if he had headed the
mob in person.
AFTER THE LYNCHING was over and the mob
had mostly dispersed Governor Moody ordered a bat-
talion of troops, armed with machine guns and gas
bombs, to disperse the mob and secure order. He be-
came a determined, aggressive enforcer of the law-
AFTER the lynching. Such a man is not fit to be the
governor of any state, civilized or savage.
