LYNCHING AND THE DEMOCRATS AND THE DEMOCRATS
J
UST when the Democratic Convention was about to open its
doors in Houston, Tex., the shadow of shame fell across the
great state like some evil omen.¯¯A Negro was lynched at
Houston.
This country, by this time, is accustomed to lynchings. The
only query raised now when a lynching takes place is the query
as to whether the victim is white or black. Lynchings no longer
astound us, so common has become the pastime in the United
States. When the news spread that a lynching had taken place
right at the threshold of the Democratic Convention Hall, many
there were who looked upon the incident as a proverbial "black
eye" to the Democratic Convention and to the Democratic Cam-
paign soon to be opened all over the country. There was a sort
of restrained glee among those who preferred to look upon the
incident as a sin visited upon the Democrats. The lynching per
se was lost sight of. In fact, the lynching was accepted as a
visitation of the ill will of the gods upon the Democrats.
We hold a different view. We believe that the lynching
has a different significance. The Republican Convention was
embarrassed at Kansas City by the daylight robbery of a bank.
The bandits were white, and the bank was a white institution.
The Republicans shook off that embarrassment and proceeded
orderly to nominate their candidate. The bank robbery per se
meant nothing to the Republicans, and they have forgotten it.
Not so with the lynching. The lynching struck terror to the
hearts of the Democrats. Houston bowed its head in shame
mingled with a peculiar embarrassment. The lynching struck
terror to the whole state of Texas because of the time and place
of its occurrence. The Republicans may overlook a bank rob;
bery, but the Democrats cannot ignore a lynching which took
place just when they were about to issue their proclamation to
the public in the form of a party platform. If there ever was a
lynching that had any political value, it was the lynching at
Houston. The Democrats are not going to ignore lynching.
They are not going to dismiss this national crime with a mere
slight wave of the hand. They are not going to forget that the
lynchers and the mob leaders seek out white victims as well as
black; and we think that the lynching is going to serve to in-
spire the Democrats to deal boldly with lynching in their party
platform.
There will be those who will refer to the lynching during
the campaign. We can imagine we hear the stump speakers de-
claring that the Democratic campaign had a lynching as its cur-
tain raiser. We imagine we can hear the orators charging that
lynching to the Democratic party. This will be not only unkind,
but untrue. The Democrats accept that lynching at Houston
with its full significance, and we believe that it will serve to
keep before the convention not only the lawlessness of one kind,
but lawlessness of every kind. Something good may yet come
out of that lynching. It is hard to conceive that lynching can
contribute any good, but somehow we believe the lynching at
Houston will shake the consciousness of the Democrats; that it
will bring home to them the necessity for dealing with such an
offense; and we are of the opinion that the party platform is-
sued by the Democrats will deal definitely and specifically with
lynching. If this outrage can be the source of renewed interest
in the helplessness of the black citizen in this country, it will
have served a wonderful purpose; and if the Democrats can see
their golden opportunity to convert a shame into a party asset,
it will redound to the credit of the Democrat party and to the
convention.
We deplore lynching wherever it is done and whenever it
is done. We think, however, that the lynching at Houston came
at a time and under circumstances which made it a most un-
kind cut which may, in the final analysis, prove to be the most
significant lynching this country has yet known. We entertain
the hope that the Democrats will blot out this shame and the
possibility of its repetition by the adoption of a plank that has
teeth in it. We say, “We entertain the hope." }
