Mays Says:.No Justice
For Negroes in Dixie
(Continued from Page 1)
the same.. It is clear from the evidence given by the press
that a mob blocked the road and killed Mallard. I pre-
dicted that nothing would be done.
:
I also predicted that nothing would be done when
Isaiah Nixon was shot down in cold blood by men who
went to his house and killed him. The reason for shoot-
ing him seems to have been that Nixon voted. Mallard was
killed, it'seems, because he was too successful. A few
years ago, four Negroes were lynched in Monroe, Ga., in
broad daylight by a mob of unhooded men. I was called
a pessimist because I predicted that nothing would be
done.
F
My prophesy proved to be correct. A large part of
the staff of the GBI and the FBI went through the mo-
tion of trying to find out who lynched the four Negroes
-two men and two women. They couldn't find out, so
they said.
A mob lynched a Negro in Greenville, S. C., two or
three years ago. The members of the mob admitted in
court they lynched the Negro and boasted that they would
do the same thing over again. A South Carolina court
cleared the men.
Make no mistake! What happened to Nixon and Mal-
lard could happen to any Negro. It could happen to a
Negro minister, a Negro physician, a Negro college presi-
dent, a Carver, a Roland Hayes-even to a Booker T.
Washington raised from the dead.
It could happen to him because in the minds of so
many white people, the Negro is not a human being. To
them, he is no more than a dog, a cat, a hog, a squirrel
or a rabbit-he is sub-human.
And if a Negro gets "out of his place” he could be
killed just as quickly as a dog and with no more pangs of
conscience-not everywhere in the South, but in all too
many places.
In some respects this is a legal matter. But most
of all, it is a religious matter. If religion, the law and
education cannot give dignity to the Negro's person, he
is going to be lynched either by the courts of the mob
and he will never get complete justice in the deep South.
Let the forces of religion take notice!
No Justice for Ne
in South!"-Dr. Mays in South!"- Dr. Mays Justice for Ne
ISAIAH NIXON
Never had a chance
DR. BENJAMIN MAYS
Tells off the South.
of lynching which exists in the public mind and in the
minds of the officers of the law such as lawyers, judges,
and jurors. We must enact a Federal law against lynch-
ing. That will help tremendously. But we must never
forget that lynching is of the mind.
It is equally true that if a white person does some-
thing to a Negro, the courts so often exonerate the white
person after only a few moments of deliberation. This
happened just a few days ago when the jury in Lyons,
Ga., acquitted the white men who were indicted for the
killing of Robert Mallard on the highway Nov. 30, 1948.
Whether the court had the right men, I cannot say. But
that doesn't matter. If the court had known that the men
were guilty, the results would, in all probability, have been
t
(Continued on Page 4, Col. 2)
sched
if he does not get justice in the courts or if he is
ally killed unjustly by court decision because he is a
gro-that is tantamount to a legal lynching.
The greatest tragedy about the Negro situation in
e South is the fact that he seldom, if ever; gets justice
his case involves a white person.
What I am trying to say is that even when we get
Iof mob lynching we will still have to fight to get rid
legal lynching.
There will be a transfer of the lynching from the open
from trees and woods to the court house, where a
ATLANTA-There can be no justice for the Negro
the deep South ... until he is looked upon as a person
thing and not as an animal! As long as
d not as a
e Negro is considered sub-human he is going to be
either by a mob or by the court.
By DR. BENJAMIN E. MAYS
(Noted Educator, Author and Courier Columnist)DR
for
