CHARGES WATSON TO
ARMY DEFENSE VOICED
WASHINGTON, Jan. 11.- Army officers were called in today by the senate committee
investigating charges that American soldiers had been hanged in France to check up on
testimony of former service men as to the alleged illegal executions.
Dr. H. E. Ross of Danville, Ill., a battalion surgeon with the 16th infantry, declared
he heard of no lynchings at Gondrecourt that he never heard of any hangings in that
locality. Robert Harrison, of Wilmington, and N. C., had testified that he saw a Mexican
lynched near Gondrecourt.
" If a man in the 16th Infantry had
been hanged as charged would you
have heard of it?" Chairman Brande
gee asked.
" Unquestionably," he replied.
Senator Watson presented to the
committee an affidavit by J. A. Mc-
Donald of Youngstown, Ohio, setting
forth that he was at the Bassens prison
in France, when Private Fitzgerald
was shot and killed by a Sergeant
Cooper or Kuippa, of Newcastle, Pa."
McDonald said he was ready to testi-
ty in support of recent testimony to
the effect by Edward Duner of San
Francisco.
Details of the execution of a soidier
at Gievres, on June 20, 1919, were given
by Col. Charles J. Symonds, of
Camp Sherman, Ohio, who was in command
there at time. The gallows,
he said, was erected the the night of June
19, the execution was secret and was
not known generally until the next
day.
" I saw no reason for making it pub-
lle because the crime was not committed
at Glevres," he added." I al
rected that nobody should attend but
a certain number of witnesses."
" Was there any other gallows at
Glevres?" Chairman Brandegee asked.
" Not while I was there, from Feb-
ruary, 1918- to July 1919."
Some witnesses heretofore had testi-
fled that guards had told them of the
thanging of upwards of a dozen soldiers
at Gievres.
Colonel Symonds was shown a plc-
ture of a gallows at Gievres, as sub-
mitted by a former service man.
" It corresponds closely to the one at
Glevres. I believe it is the one I ordered
erected there," he.
Questioned regarding testimony said that
, two negroes were lynched near Gley
res, Colonel Symonds said he could
not conceive of anything of the kind
happening without a report of it
reaching him.
Senator Watson, Democrat, Georgia,
whose charges of illegal executions led
to the investigation, sharply cross examined
Colonel Symonds concerning
the" secrecy surrounding the execution
at Glevres."
" Was the soldier hanged in a uniform
?"
Senator Watson asked.
" Yes
The
.
body was taken down
and buried in the regular way. The
grave was in a separate part of the
cemetery.
1"
