LYNCH LAW .-- The following account
of a summary execution of vindictive
justice, scorning the law's delay, is from
a late number of the New Orleans Adver
natiser: NEW ORLEANS, July 11.
Mob Justice.- Information was re.
ceived from Vicksburg( in Mississip-
) yesterday, by the steamboat Scotstopping
land, that a serious act of mobocracy
took place on the 9th inst. in the town
mentioned. It appears that a den of
gamblers existed in that place, which
had become obnoxious to the citizens.
On the Fourth of July the gamblers
were refused permission to participate
in the celebration, whereupon, they
became insolent, and notice was given
to them by the citizens to leave the
place. This they disregarded, and
remained. Two of them, in consequence
, were taken, and made to go
through the ceremony of tarring and
feathering, so well known& so often
practised in the West. These two left
the place, but the others, five in number
, armed themselves, and made a
fortress of their establishment, to which
the citizens repaired, and, after having
forced the doors, rushed in. Dr. Bod-
ley, the first person who entered, re.
ceived eleven balls through his body,
and fell dead instantly. The death of
the doctor excited the people to the
highest degree of wrath; and, having
seized the gamblers, they lost no time
in hanging the whole five, who remained
suspended twenty- four hours. Per
haps justice was done them. It is reted
ported that they had several times be
fore escaped legal justice.
Another account says- They post
ed centries, and gave notice that any
person who approached them for 24
hours would be served likewise. All the
money which was of large amount was
piled upon a table before the suspended
bodies, and the committee paid it away
to all who could prove they had lost
money at the house. About twelve or
fifteen persons in connection with the
house, started for this city in haste to
avoid a similar fate. These are the
particulars as we have heard them-
we shall make no comments upon so
dreadful an occurrence, hoping the ac
counts have been exaggerated.
Since the above was in type we
have heard that Dr. Bodley was murdered
in the gaming house, after hav-
won a considerable sum of money
at the table, which was the original
cause of this execution of summary
justice, or Lynch Law as it is called.
The persons executed were, Mr. North,
who kept a tavern, Dutch Bill, his bar
keeper, Mr. Samuel Smith, Mr. Cull-
Mr.
um, and
