Cassius M. Clay to Daniel Webster.
We have expressed the opinion that there
might greater evils overtake us, as a nation, than
a dissolution of our union. Some of those evils
more to be dreaded, will be found clearly set
forth in the extract we give below from a recent
letter of C. M. Clay's to Daniel Webster. We
feel with Clay, that we had rather trust to the
present moral and intellectual energies of the
than have
people to create a new government to
,
,
those energies destroyed by a course of evil, and
then when the union sinks as a consequence, be
unable to rise above the ruins:
As much as the Union is to be loved, it is not
to be loved more than a NATIONAL CONSCIENCE.
If the idea, all along held, that slavery, by the
terms of the constitution, was to be allowed time
" to die out" with decency, be ill- founded, and
the constitution is to be so" compromised" that
slave and free states shall receive equal encouragement
and protection, and slavery and freedom
be equally extended, I prefer dissolution to that!
If the constitution is to be made vital, in the
free states, to the returning a slave into bondage,
but not potent to protect a freeman from slavery
in the south, I prefer dissolution to that! I say
nothing of Lynch law and proscription upon natives
of the south for exercising the liberty of
speech, that would not be remedied by dissolution
.
If the moral influence of our declaration of
rights, our example as a republic, our personifi-
cation of liberal opinions, is to be lost to our own
self- elation, and to the" giory of mankind," and
our domestic and foreign policy is to be made
subservient to slave holding will and slave holding
sentiments, I prefer dissolution to that! If
national spirit of the compromise" must forswear
justice and humanity forever, and bow down
to an altar consecrated to crime, where up- headed
manliness can never venture with honor to it-
self or respect from others- then give une dissolution
! Give me the justice- give me the true
principles of liberty- give me manliness- give
me trust in humanity- give me faith in God-
and I will risk in the reconstruction of society,
and the reorganization of nations. Knowing
well that something better may happen- but that
nothing worse can come than such a union- a
body without a soul, that stinks in the nostrils of
sentiment, of reason, and of religion!
Whilst, then, I commend your submission to
enlaw; your determination to pass laws, in good
and determination to stand by the pledged
your
faith of the Government, in regard to the admission
of four more slave states from Texas, if the
will purpose, or public
councils to stand upon the penalties of the
bond" I cannot but regret that you did not feel
it in your duty, as a Northern Senator, as Daniel
Webster, as a MAN, to say a word in favor of freedom
, which would encourage its friends and car
ry terror into the hearts of its enemies.
Twenty millions of men spread from sea to
sea! If there be not a man of great soul among
them, it is more a cause for tears and contrition
than of triumph and laudatory poetry!
It is a subject of regret that you did not equal
ly as decisively lay down the platform of defence,
where liberty is to entrench herself against the
assaults of those who, you confess, have moved
from the ground occupied at the formation of the
constitution, and now threaten to enter with bloo-
dy feet, upon consecrated ground, or to destroy
the temple of our common worship; that you
have not said for your" section," what Mr. Cal-
houn has said for his; that, at all hazards, Nor-
thern freemen shall remain so, even to the throwing
down the stone walls of Charlestown or New
Orleans; that free territory, by Mexican iaw, by
by American law, and by" nature's law," shall
remain free, though southern madmen rage a
wordy war in Congress, or Quattlebums march
to drum and fife in the field; that right wrongs
no man, and that manliness and com
pel you to say what you intend to do, that the
and South may learn that you do homage
if North not to a" Wilmot's," at least to" Nature's
