MURDER AND LYNCH LAW.- We learn from
the Grenada( Mise.) Republican of a case of
murder and lynch law which occurred recently
near that place. A. Mr. Bingham, residing
near Grenada, was missing. A party of ten
or fifteen citizens, supposing that he had been
thrown from his horse, and either killed or disabled
, repaired, so soon as the news was made
known to his farm, and searched the woods for
a considerable distance around, but without
making any discoveries tending in the least to
solve the mytery of his absence. After an
other search suspicion was directed to some
of his own slaves. Most of them denied any
knowledge of the cause of their master's absence
, but one was finally induced to disclose
the whole affair, and conducted the party
having them in charge, to the place where the
body was concealed. The others then corroborated
his statement as to all the material facts.
It appears from this confession that a conspiracy
to murder the deceased had been entered
into by all the slaves,( three of his own and
one hired slave,) several weeks prior to the
commission of the act. On Sunday night, the
22d ult., they accomplished their design as Mr.
B. was entering his smoke- house after supper
for the purpose of giving them their rations.
As he was unlocking the door, one of the
negro men struck him a stunning blow on the
back of the head with a club, the other imme.
diately jumped upon him and grasped his
hands, and the negro woman secured his feet,
while the first caught him by the throat, and
made the fourth, a young negro, bring a rope,
which was fastened around his neck. By this
means he was strangled until life was extinct.
His body was then thrown into a neighboring
creek, and the negroes spent the remainder of
the night in singing and dancing. Two of the
negroes were taken into custody, and a guard
placed over them, but they were seized by a
mob and hung. Two others were placed
jail. in
A GAMBLER LYNCHED.- We learn that a
gambler of the name of Williamson suffered
the penalties of Lynch law at Hickman a few
days since, at the hands of the passengers of
the steamer St. Paul. It appears that a party
of returned Californians started for St. Louis
on the boat from New Orleaus, but as the boat
was about leaving port a police officer came
on board and cautioned the passengers to be
ware of gamblers and pickpockets during the
trip, at the same time informing them that several
of the fraternity were on the boat. This
made the Californians extremely cautious and
wary the approaches of their fellow passengers
of.
