The Western Bugle, published at Council
Murder and Lynch Law at Council Bluff.
Bluff, of the 17th, contains a long acount of a
murder and subsequent execution of the alleged
murderer, by a decree of Judge Lynch's court,
in that town, upon a person by the name of J.
C. Samuels, said to be frem Columbus, Ohio.
The deceased and one Baltimore Muer were
messmates at the camp; they were to stand
guard. About twelve o, clock at night the
party were aroused by a man coming into
the camp, and saying that his horss had been
tolen; at daylight they went ont and found
Samuels lying about ten feet from the camp fire
on his back, with his head severely bruisod, his
kull broken in several places, and his neck
cut off with some
to be an axe, which was found lying near the
body covered with blood. His coat and pant-
loons had been opened, and his belt, contain
ing some$ 300 had been taken off, and Moer
was not to be found. Suspicion fell upon him,
and active exertions were set on foot, by the
Sheriff, for his arrest. A coroner, e jury was
summoned, and about the time the body of the
young man was placed in the wagon to be.
moved to the Court House, Muer returned to
the camp. He was arrested. Great excite
ment pervaded the town, and it was suggested
that the prisoner should be lynched. But he
taken to the Court coufined in
apper room and ironod. The examination
proceeded. For a time the people( mostly om
igrants) were quiet. Sling
The Sheriff addressed the crowd, and they
greed not to be guilty of any violence, After
a while, however, and when the body was disposed
for the enquiry, the officers were alarmed
by the appearance of a party who demanded
the possession of the prisoner. The Sheriff
remonstrated, but to no purpose. The emi
grants took the man custody, and proceeded to
try him. A judge, jury and officers were ap
pointed; and despite the remonstrances of the
District Attorney, and others, the trial was proceeded
with. At the conclusion of the examination
, the jury declared the prisoner guilty,
and sentenced him to execution at 5 o, clock
that evening, at or near the spot where the
murder was commited. Clergymnen were admitted
to him, but he protested his innocence
of this crime, though guilty of others. At the
hour appointeq, the man was taken to the spot.
a rope thrown over the limb of a tree, and ap
justed round his neck- the prisoner then no-
unted on a mule, which was driven from under
him, and the fall broke his neck. To the last,
he protested his innocence of the crime. This
lynching the work almost entirely of the
emigrants was .-[ St. Louis Republican.
