Sensible Language from a Southern
There are many men in the Slave States
who are not losess much of that love of
justice, but
sound Republican principles which characterized
the patriots and statesmen of the
South in the days of Jefferson and Madison,
They are now kept down by the ferocious
demagogues of the Henry A. Wise and Jeff
Davis and held in awe by the reckless
stamp,
majority by whom they are surrounded
There are some who have the courage to
speak on the great question before the country
like men. The editor of the daily News,
of Newport, Kentucky, in his paper of the
14th ult .. indulzes lieton st the North
which have an application at the North as
was at the South. This language is truth-
as it is bold. Read his article; here it
fal is:
THE PROPAGANDISTS OF SLAVERY.
There is a class of men at the South who
are clearly distinguished from the great mass
of the people by certain characteristics
which mark them as the peculiar friends of
Slavery These men, though not numerous
in the more northern Slave States, make up
in audacity what they lack in numbers, and
cover the weakness of their cause by the
strength of their bravado. The leading
article in their creed in Slavery: their idea
of Republicanism is founded on Slavery; the
corner- stone of their church is laid on Slavery
; and their estimates of men and measures
in political affairs, begin and end in
Slavery. These men do not hesitate to
avow, always and everywhere, their prefer
ence for Slavery over Freedom. They are
bold shameless unscrupulous ever ready
,,,
and champion the despotic side
rampant to,
and to put down all opposition. Some of
the cover their devotion to Slavery by high
sounding names, such as" patriotism,"
nationality,"" devotion to the Union,"
and the like. If you push them home in
argument, you will soon discover that they
care little for the country, except so far as
it helps and supports the peculiar institution
," and that in their dictionary the Un
ion always means Slavery. If Slavery can
be extended- if fugitives can be re- captured
if the Inter- State Slave- trade can be kept
up- if they can wheedle or brow- beat the
North and their moderate brethren of the
the
South into supporting and extending
system, then they go for the Union. But
the moment any action of the National Legislature
aiming at keeping Slavery within
its present limits, is advocated, they fly to
arms, and with a zeal worthy of a better
cause, insist in the abandonment of all
interference." And they insist upon it in
positive and absolnte terms. They claim
that Slavery shall be suffered to grow and expand
its power unchecked, until it covers the
continent, if such be the will of any portion
of the people, and they give it to be under
stood in plain terms, that unless carte- blanch
be thus given to Slavery, they are for dis union
. Their hollow pretence of patriotism is
all a sham; with them, Slavery Is paramount,
and the Union secondary; and the security
of the Union in the hands of men like these,
is not worth a rush.
It is this class of men, whom we have
termed the Propagandists of Slavery.-
They believe in the perpetuity of the institution
. The lessons of history are lost upon
them; they are deaf to the voice of human
ity. The recorded judgments of the early
fathers of the republic against Slavery, are
them the free spirit of the
nothing to- age
.
claiming equal rights for all, finds them cold
and impassive to its call. They have taken
up their position; they are the defenders
and Propagandists of Slavery, and no matter
what atrocities they are made to justify,
they are ready to shoulder the iniquity.ings
Tell them that freedom has been struck down
in Kansas by armed interference from Missouri
, and free citizens driven from polls at
the point of the bayonet, and they declare
that it is all right, and call the Stringfellow
of a
ment! Tell them that slaves carried by
their owners into the free States are fres-
-free by the common law- free by the constitutions
of all the Northern States, and
free by the oft- repeated decisions of the
Southern courts themselves, and they swear
it is all a lie, and declare that they have a
right to carry their negroes wherever they
please. In a word, we find these men always
loudmouthed in their defence of Slavery and
denunciations of Freedom, ready to defend
every act of violence and lynch faw, always
dead to justice impervious to argument and
Friends of the, South! You who
