FIENDISH OUTRAGE!
From the Adams County( O.) Democrat.
Arrest of the Perpetrator- His Incarceration in
the County Jail- Capture therefrom and Exe-
cution According to the Lynch Code.
Since our last, our county has been the scene
of a crime, as fiendish and brutal as human' record
can present, accompanied by a punisnment,
as sudden and terrible- such punishmt as, for
the last few years, is paralleled only in Califor-
nia and Kansas. The particulars of this terrible
affair, according to our information in the premises
, are as follows:
On Friday night, 21st inst., the house of Mr.
Israel Morris, in Manchester, in this county, was
forced, by breaking open an outside window, the
house entered, and the person of Mrs M.( who
was alone in the house with two infant children)
violated, in a most horrible and brutal manner.
Shortly before daylight, on Saturday 22d, the
neighbors were aroused by shrieks and sounds of
distress and danger, in Morris's house.
So soon
as possible, the neighbors rushed in and found
the little children in a perfect terror of fright
Mrs. M. speechless- her jaw dislocated, and hang-
. ing down- terror and anguish depicted in every
of her countenance.
could not present a more frightful and distresseders
looking object than she was, as we were inform
ed by those who were witness and
melancholy spectacle. Her husband was, at
the time, absent from home, on the river.
The town was speedily aroused, and the people
gathered in and around the house by hun-
dreds. Mrs. M.'s jaw was soon set by the physicians
of the place, when she told- her horrify-
ing tale. The particulars are too revolting for
publication. Suffice it to say, her person was
most grossly abused; her throat was black, and
her shoulders bore marks of violence, and hurts
and bruises were all over her person. She sta-
sted that she was aroused from sleep by a pressure
upon the face;( evidently the hand of the
miscreant, intended to prevent her from screaming
and arousing the neighbors.) She resisted
to the utmost of her power, consequently the
great injuries to her person. We have no dispo-
ticulars of her story to pursue the horrible recital
. She informed the spectators that in her
struggles she had scratched or torn the lip of her
31
assaulter.
A burly negro in the town, named Bill Ter
ry, was suspected. A number of persons, inflamed
and excited by a view of the person, and
moved the tale of the sufferer instantly hun
by,-
ted him up. On examination, his lip was founded
to be scratched and marked in the manner described
by the sufferer. So soon as this was commented
on by his captors, and before he had been
informed of the object of their visit he remark.
,
ed- she did not do that." Other declarations
made by him, aud proofs obtained, satisfied the
whole town that he was the vile wretch who
perpetrated the atrocious deed.
The people thereupon seized him, carried him
over to the Island in the Ohio River, just east of
the town, and strung him up by the neck. When
nearly gone, he was let down, when he confess-
ed to the perpetration of the deed.
He was brought back, legal steps were taken,
and he was incarcerated in the jail of the county.
Here he remained until Tuesday last. On the
morning of that day Mr. M. arrived home. On
learning the horrid abuse to which, his wife had
heen subjected, he was of course terribly moved.
Incited by him, as we learn, numbers of the citizens
of Mancheser and vicinity, deeming legal
punishment inadequate to the enormity of the
offence, determined that he should expiate the
crime with his life.
On the same day, Tuesday, 25th, about 12
o'clock, M., a large number of men, fully fifty in
number, we would say, some in the Manchester
Band wagon, some in other wagons, and some on
horse back, marched through the Main street of
our town, directly to the jail. The Sheriff, as
soon as possible, was among them, and command-
ed them to desist, and called upon the bystand-
ers to assist him. The trial of Miligan for the
murder of Senter, had called a great multitude to
town, and we presume some 500 or more persons
at this time surrounded the jail. No person
obeyed the Sheriff''s command. It was very ev
ident that the sympathies of a large number of
the crowd was with the mob," regulators," or
whatever the reader may please to call them.
This crowd seized from the Sheriff a gun, with
which he had armed himself, demanded the key
of the room in which the negro was incarcerated,
and on his refusal to furnish it, deliberately proceeded
to obtain sledges, crowbars,& c., forced
open the door, seized the negro, placed him in
the wagon, and with shouts of triumph, kept up
as lonas very evident, a considerable portion of
As
the crowd sympathized with the rescuers.
The subsequent disposition of the negro, we
learn from the story of an eye- witness, as fol-
lows:
A large crowd had assembled at Manchester,
and were awaiting the arrival of the party with
the negro. Upon the arrival of the party with
the a of up
both parties. The negro while passing the
crowd on the street, raised himself up in the
wagon, and with a demon- like expression of
countenance gave a loud huzza. Arriving at the
river, the prisoner was taken from the wagon,
when he coolly asked if they were not going to
let him ride over to the Island,"( the spot fixed
upon for hanging him.) He was told that he
must walk He then asked
over. to see his wife,
which privilege was allowed him. When his
wife approached him, he remarked to her," I
I'll have hang." told him
the should not have none as he had, and he would
not have been in" such a fix," to which he made
no reply. He then asked her if she was going
to stay in town- she said no. He then told her
to take good care of the children. They then
shook hands and kissed each other, when she
left him apparently unconcerned. He then turned
to the crowd and told them to" come on."
The crowd proceeded with him to the Island
above town. Arriving there, a rope was thrown
over the limb of a tree about twenty feet from
the ground, the rope was then placed around the
negro's neck, his arms and legs being tied. He
was then told to say what he had to say. Look
ing around over the crowd he said good- bye to
several who stood near him, and calling to
several boys to" git down out of that tree," said
he was ready. Several questions were then
asked him, to which he made no answer, but
said" if you are going to hang me, do it quick,
and don't ask me so many questions." The
rope was then gradually pulled until he was raised
about fifteen feet from the ground, where he
was kept suspended half an hour, when he was
taken down and buried. He was hung at three
o'clock P. M.
He manifested the most perfect indifference
throughout the whole proceeding, and showed
the most determined fortitude ever witnessed
perhaps on such an occasion. He died without
a struggle, scarcely moving a muscle. So ended
the tragedy.
We regret this manifestation of Lynch Law
ism, in our community, which we know to be as
law abiding as any in the State; but at the same
time, we cannot divest ourselves of the feeling
entertained by every man whom we have heard
speak of it, that nothing but the death of the
perpetrator would be an adequate punishment
for a crime of that
which has met with this sudden and terrible
punishment. We hope never again to be called
upon to record either a crime of the horribio ypo
of the one we have only faintly endeavored to
describe above, or a punishment similar to the
Penone which has visited it. Theoretically we have
heretofore ever opposed mob- law, and this
bition of its operations, has by no means lessened exhi
