LYNCH LAW
Discussed in an Able Article from
the Pen of Rev. Drane.
EDITOR REPUBLICAN:
The following may be of interest to
the reading public regarding American
anarchism. During the sixteen
years -- 1885 to 1900 inclusive- that
detailed statistics have been kept by
the Tribune, the number of lynchings
and other illegal executions reached
a total of 2,516 of this number
2,080 were perpetre ted in the Southern
States and 436 in the Northern,
2 465 of the victims were males and
fifty- one females; 1,678 negroes, 801
were whites, twenty- one were indians,
nine were Chinese and seven were
Mexicans. The crimes are alleged
crimes which caused the people to
take the law into their own hands,
came near exhausting the calendar.
Murder and rape head the list in
point of number, but there is a total
of 112 other offenses given as excuses
for exercising lynch law.
Some of the crimes were of the
most petty nature. For instance, one
man was lynched for slapping a child,
another for jiting a girl another for
,
drunkness, another for throwing
stones, another for enticing a servant
away, two paid the extreme penalty
for eloping, two for writing insulting
letters, three for being unpopular,
two for practicing" voodooism"
three for keeping saloons, five for
swindling and two for gambling. Ten
persons were executed for no offense
while ninety- two were
whatever,
lynched for unknown cause. Vigilantes
are charged with fourteen
deaths, whitecaps nine, Indians one,
moonshiners one, desperadoes one.
Every State in the Union with only,
five exceptions, has been the scene
of one or more lynchings during the
last sixteen years; those without this
blot on their history being Deleware,
Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Utah
and Rhode Island.
The States having the largest num
ber is Mississippi with 255 to its dis-
,
credit, Texas comes second with 247
and Louisana third with 221, Georgia
has had Alabama and Ten-
249 210
,
nessee 169. The Northern States
holding the record for lynching is In
diana with 36. But two Northern
Territories exceed this, Indian Territory
having bad fifty- three and Oklahoma
, new as it is, thirty- six. Illinois
has had fourteen lynchings in
sixteen years. Each year seems to be
distinctive for a particular cause in
Judge Lynch's court. In 1885 the
feeling against horse- stealing was especially
severe, the number of executions
for that crime being thirty- five.
In 1886 the vigilantes were unusually
active, lynching seven. In 1887
" Voodoolsm" was first regarded as
an offense grave enough to justify
sudden death without recourse to the
law. In 1888 the horse thieves were
again given no mercy, ten of them
paying the extreme penalty; eight
were lynched in this same year for
arson. In 1889 it was the outlaws
and desperadoes who suffered most,
nineteen of them being strung up by
mobs. In 1890 race prejudice claimed
five victims and political prejudice
three. The most sensational feature
of 1891 was the summary execution of
eleven Italians in New Orleans for alleged
conspiracy to murder. In 1892
the crime of horse- stealing cost twenty
more men their lives. In 1893 the
whitecaps began operations, lynchinglars
one man, one" sooner" was lynched
this same year. 1894 was a year of
lynchings for petty offenses, colored
men paying the extreme penalty for
asking a white woman to marry,
writing letters to a white woman, in
tio lucing smallpox, swindling and
conjuring. In 1895 a white woman
was lynched also a man for being dis
reputable. A counterfeiter was strung
up in 1896 also a man for slapping a
child. The whitecaps claimed four
victims in 1897 and in 1898 violation
of a contract cost one man his life.
In 1899 five men were hanged with
out a trial because they had bad reputations
. In 1900 race prejudice was
again to the front with ten victims.
Of the 101 victims of lyuch law
during the present year, seventy- six
were colored, twenty- three white, one
Indian and one Chinese. Murder was
given as the cause for twenty seven
lynchings, rape twenty, murderous
assault six, race prejudice five, arson
four, attempted rape four, theft three,
sheltering murderer three, suspected
cattle stealing two, stealing horses
four, train wrecking one, unknown
offense one, keeping grambling house
one, resisting arrest one, robbery one,
insulting white woman two, assault
ing white person one, whitecaps one,
mistaken identity one.
In Holy Writ we are told," Whatsoever
we soweth that shall we reap"
and yet during these years have been
sowing lawlessness and crime until
now we are forced to call for help to
stop foreign born nations from doing
what we Americans have been practicing
for at least sixteen years. Our
have found us out."
sins G W DRANE.
