Eighteen Companies of State Militia
Are Present to Preserve Order
and Mob Has Been
Dispersed.
SPRINGFIELD, O., March 10.- This city
last night passed its first peaceful night
of the week. While there was much
anxiety during the night, owing to the
demonstrations in the afternoon and even
ing, there is such a restoration of confidence
today normal
vail. Shops which have run short- handed
this week and some forced to close yester.
day are all running as usual today. Those
who have been augmenting the crowds
in the streets are back at work, while
eighteen companies of militia occupy the
public places and the streets.
The trouble started last Sunday morning
when Richard Dixon, colored, killed officer
Collis, and it ended today with the
impressive funeral services over the body
of Sergeant Collis at St. Raphael's Catholic
church.
General McMakin and Colonel
Mead, with eighteen companies of militia,
supplied patrols for the city, so that the
entire police force, with all the city and
county officials were in attendance Some
,
.
of the soldiers also attended. Only a
small part of the populace abou
the
church could gain admittance.
The mob- swept districts along the levee,
the public buildings and all probable points
of trouble
are today strongly guarded
by
troops. The west end of the levee that was
raided yesterday afternoon and completely
dismantled attracts more visitors than the
" burned district."
All the colored occupants of both districts
are gone and none know where they are
now. While no negroes
were out last
night, many are on the streets today. It is
known that many negroes who have been
unable to reach other cities slept out in
the country last night. There has been
much apprehension over what the negroes
might do after the troops leave, but that
anxiety is now less intense, as both whites
and negroes seem to have had enough
of mobs this week. While the licenses of
colored dealers were revoked yesterday,
all saloons
are still kept closed. The
troops last night kept the crowds on the
move and finally dispersed them altogether.
After a conference between the civil and
military authorities today it was decided
not to ask Governor Herrick to relieve any
troops until tomorrow, and then the withdrawal
will be gradual. The mobs have
intimated that they would finish the job,
but it is evident that no more incendiary
work would be done, although less than
half of the" odfous dives" have been
burned.
This city is the headquarters of the" National
Anti- Mob and Lynch Law association
," that meets monthly and always
adopts resolutions when lynchings occur in
any part of the country. It claims 30,000
members. in branches throughout the
United States. Springfield is also the home
of ex- Representative Stewart, author of
the Ohio statute providing heavy penalties
for those participating in lynchings.
A determined effort will be made by Judge
Mower and Prosecutor McGrew to procure
the indictment of the leading members of
the raob who lynched Dixon. Under a
state law an attempt, successful or other
wise, to take a prisoner from the authorities
is a felony punishable by one to ten
years in the penitentiary. It is asserted
that evidence enough has now been se
cured to procure the indictment at least
twenty men under this statute. of
