!
SHERIFF SHOWS POOR JUDGMENT
Gave Mob Too Good a Chance to Get
Higgins.
WEST POINT, Neb., Aug. 27 .-( Special.)
-The lynching of Murderer Higgins at
Bancroft yesterday was not unexpected.
The fires of revenge, which have been
smoldering since the murder, were rekindled
when it became known that the
murderer would be conveyed to his trial
by the ordinary routes of travel. The
sheriffs having him in charge are criticised
for the manner in which they attempted to
reach Pender. In ordinary cases and undersion
ordinary circumstances the railroad route
would have been feasible, but in view of
the iminous threats that had been made
and the known feeling of the people of
Bancroft, where the victims were so well
known and beloved, the taking of Higgins
through the town in charge of only two
men was a bid for mob violence and a
temptation the hot- headed friends of the
Copples could not resist. Had the prisoner
been taken to Pender in an automobile, as
was first suggested, by the cross- country
route, at a proper time delivered in court
when it was in session, no mob would
have invaded the precincts of the court
room.
Public sentiment in Cuming county is
about evenly divided on the matter, many
citizens, while deploring the act, urge in
extenuation the atrocious character of the
erime committed by Higgins. the absolute
absence of provocation, the degenerate tendencies
of the murderer and last, but not
least, the maudiin sympathy which some
parties have shown toward Higgins, the
announcements made from time to time as
to the lines of his so- called defense and
the ever- present feeling that by some
chicanery he would be allowed to cheat
the gallows. Great regret is felt by all
that the fair name of Cuning county has
been sullied by this act of the mob, us
heretofore our county has been singularly
free from erimes of violence, no county of
its population in the state having a smaller
percentage of citizens in the state
prison. The only other tyncbing known to
have
in the county was in the
early days of its first settlemeht, when the
county was unorganized and the court of
Judge Lynch was the only resort None
the
of participants are now living.
