MOB WAS PERFECTLY ORGANIZED
JAIL DOOR
Lafayette County Lynchers Obeyed Signals of Their Leader With
Military Precision- Masked Avengers of George W. John
son's Murder Secured Prisoners and Were Gone in
an Hour- Both Men Hanged to the Same Limb Half.
mot
EACH MAN DIED ACCUSING
HARRY GATES. CHARLES SALYERS,
were taken from the Lafayette County Jail at Lexington, Mo., yesterday by a
Who masked mob and lynched.
REPUBLIC SPECIAL
Lexington, Mo., Aug. 12.- The mob which
lynched Charles Salyers, white, and Harry
Gates, a negro, at 2:30 o'clock this morning
was perfectly organized and obeyed the
signals of its leader with military precision.
cision,
Before the officers were aware of any
thing unusual a crowd of masked men had
surrounded and taken posession of the jail
and, on failing to obtain the keys to the
cells in which the prisoners were confined,
workmen already prepared, commenced on
the steel doors with hammers and chisels
and in a few moments the objects of their
quest were in their possession.
Mob Posted Sentries.
Just before the jail was reached the electric
lights in the streets were turned out
and as they reached the courtyard, sentries
took their positions and all outsiders were
kept out of bounds.
The mob took the men and marched back
in the same direction from which it came.
and in less than half an hour the partie
1pants were gone and the streets of the
town were deserted, with scarcely a soul to
be seen. Everything was done in perfect
order, and at daybreak the two men were
found hanging by the neck to a limb of the
same tree- one that stood in the public
road near Edin View Church, about three
miles south of this city.
Last Message for His Mother.
When the two men stood under the tree
with the ropes around their necks each
again accused the other of having fired the
shot that killed Johnson, Gates saying to
Salyers:" You know you are goin to die;
why will you die with a lie on your mouth?"
Salyers's words were:" Tell my mother I
die innocent of murder."
During the whole time Salyers displayed
remarkable nerve, saying he would as soon
die as not but for his mother. During the
time they were breaking open his cell he
sat on the bedside and rolled and smoked
cigarettes, and while the lynchers had him
2nd were breaking open Gates's cell he
continued to smoke.
Ever since the murder of George W.
Johnson, who was killed by chicken thieves
at his home near
this place exactly a
week before and for which the men were ar
rested and confined in jail, the community
has been in a state of suppressed excitement
, and at first a lynching was expected
every night, but as the days went by and
1133
nothing was done it was thought that all
danger had passed, but on the coming
this morning it was found summary ven of
BATTERED OPEN
SE
THE OTHER OF THE MURDER.
CHARLES SALYERS,
Jail at Lexington, Mo., yesterday by a
and lynched.
geance had been taken on the accused by a
moh of masked men."
While the unlawful hanging of these men
is much deplored here, the sentiment is
universal that they really deserved their
fate.
Mr. Johnson was one of our very best
citizens. and his untimely death stirred the
community as it has rarely been stirred be
fore.
The coming and going of the mob that
avenged his death was swift and silent.
Both Made Confessions.
There is no doubt as to the guilt of the
two men. Both made confessions admit
ting their stealing of the chickens and their
discovery by Johnson and of the fight that
took place thereupon and of Johnson's
death, but each one accused the other of fir
ing the fatal shot.
Salyers, the white man, stated that the
proposition to go out chicken stealing was
made by Gates, and that after they had
gone into Johnson's henhouse and secured
the chickens, each one getting a sack full.
and were coming back, he was in the
lead, and that both got through the wire
fence and into the road five or six fee
apart, when he saw something in the road
and asked Gates:" What is that?" Gates
did not answer, but slipped up toward the
dark object. The dark object rose up and
Salyers saw it was a man.
Salyers started to run, when the man
cried:" Halt!"
Salyers stopped and the man fired with a
shotgun. The shot went between Salyers
and Gates. Then Gates fired at the man
with a pistol and the man fired again.
Gates jumped toward the man and fired
his pistol again. As he did so, Salyers ran
and then there was another pistol shot.
Gates and Johnson were no more than six
fet apart at the time.
Salyers went on to town and waited a
while for Gates, and then went to bed. Soon
he heard a whistle, and went out and found
Gates, who had been shot, but not badly.
They went to Salyer's house and examined
the wound, which was in the side of Gates's
right hip. Then he went to bed, where he
was when arrested by the officers. This is
Salyers's story.
In brief, Gates said that the proposition
to steal the chickens came from Salyers,
and that when Johnson fired on them he
ran, and that Salyers, fired on Johnson, and
that he did not know Salyers had a
pistof until he fired it. Otherwise there is
no mate: ial difference in their statements.
Prosecuting Attorney Blackwell has
signed statements of both men. But,
of course, the mob did not know. this
