Polly served and paid a glowing tribute to of demanding
JAMES ARNOLD MURDERED received here today of the murder of Miss Neal the sturdy Norsemen a pound of flesh, as in
Molly. Mrs. Warren and their des the original play, he demands that,
James Arnold, formerly a resident cendents who are among the staunch- if Antonio does
IN A CALIFORNIA CAMP of Hibbing Dolly
return the
,
not
at Skiddoo. McKenzie
, Cal Miss
., in a est citizens of this great republic.
" pony" within four weeks, a pound
mining
camp, April CHORUS: Farmers' Daughters The speech
19.- Misses Dickinson, Fisk, Kreatz, Lyons was very
Arnold
, Simons, well received of hair to be cut off nearest his
was shot
by a gambler named Joe and the doctor was
Coffean, Oliver, and Mrs. Rogers; Farm Lads- Messrs. Brown, Harvey, Crouch, accorded deafen-( Antonio's) brains should be the
Murderer Afterwards Lynched .--- Arnold Simpson. Simpson was at
once ing applause.
Eckstrand, Anderson, Boyer, Stirratt, Chamberlain and Engel. forfeit. Through neglect, the
Was arrested and taken
Well known to There
jail. was
in This Less some
City. splendid
Lived Here, Once. than an hour later the prisoner Act I. A Hayfield, Summer Morning. ing by a quartette of ability. sing-" pony" is not returned and Shylock
demands the forfeiture of the bond
was taken from the jail by mob Members of the
a Act II. Hayfield
and A Samhold
, Later in Same Day. society and has Antonio arrested during the
hanged."
the Norwegian play," Til
Time
gave
18th Century. great football game. In the darkest
Many of the early residents of Saetters." The play was very well
Planing at Reasonable Prices. hour he is saved by the wit of his
this city will remember rendered, those taking part doing friend's
James( Bassonio's) sweetheart,
Any desiring planing done, should well.
very
Arnold, who Between Acts I and II there will be a Recitation by Miss Portio
lived in
.
Bemidji some apply to the Bemidji Handle Factory, Sunday afternoon at the Aardahl
For the purpose of purchasing
Fisk a
six or seven and a French
years Minuet
ago, and, drilled
who had where satisfaction is guaranteed, and by Mrs. Younggren church, in the town of Frohn, east suitable memorial of the Class of
something of a reputation where prices are reasonable of Bemidji
as. Miss, a crowd
Shannon
Give
, Accompanist. of 200 people, 1908,
a
a small admission fee of twenty
prize fighter; and will be sorry to us a trial. many of them from
Bemidji Handle Com Bemidji
, partici- five cents will be charged. The
learn that Arnold
has been killed- pated
pany in the
. exercises
murdered in a mining camp at Skid Carnations ating the Norwegian Independence commemor- and entire the down tickets- stairs will will be be on reserved sale at
doo, California. at the Green house Do Not Fail to Attend
day.
A dispatch from Hibbing to the this week, 75c. Decoration week$ 1. Rev. Amundson of Nymore, the the City Drug Store Wednesday
Phone morning. There will be no extra
and Dr
166
Duluth pastor,
.
News Lutheran
- Tribune Norwegian
says Admission
of 35c
Arn 50c
Reserved Seats
old's death: Tord Nielson of this city made pat- charge for reserving the seats. The
Additional local matter will be found
riotic addresses and there was a public is cordially invited to attend
" Hibbing, May 16.- Word was on fourth page.
03333333333333333333333333333333 musical and literary program. these exercises
K.
