LYNCH LAW.
Summary Hangings in Maine, New York
and Montana.
[ New York Sun.]
" I have seen seven men lynched in my
time," said a well- known railroad con
tractor and civil engineer," and where
do you snppose I saw a piece of work of
that kind done the most artistically and
with the least fuss and compunction?
Naturally you might say in Montana, or
down in Texas. or in some other part of
the country where circumstances have
made lynching one of the exact sciences.
But it was in none of those places. It
was in Maine. Of all parts of the country
, Maine! Cold, unimpulsive, law
abiding- leaving out the liquor law
Maine! Surprising thing, isn't it? People
will be reluctant to believe that any
one was ever lynched in Maine, but it is
a fact all the same and if a lynching was
ever pardonable that one was.
" But while I'm speaking of lynching
I might as well say that I have been peculiarly
fated to be on hand at shocking
seances of this kind. The first execution
of the degree of lynch law that I ever
witnessed was in 1869 at Helena, Mon
Helena wasn't the great town that it is
now. It was infected by gamblers, rustlers
,' bad men,' horse thieves, and all
sorts of roughs and toughs, and they
pretty much ran the place. A gang
known as the Jim Daily gang, named for
its leader, was a particularly offensive
and dreaded band of robbers and thugs.
The rule of the lawless element had become
so decided and dangerous in 1869
that the better class of settlers got
together and formed the Helena
Regulators, an organization sworn
to clear the town of thieves, murderers
and gamblers. The Regulators made
their first move when the Fort Benton
stage was held up by a band of road
agents who robbed the mails and passengers
. The Regulators pursued the band,
overtook it, and a running fight between
the robbers and the citizens ensued and
lasted for a distance of ten miles.
of the Regulators were shot dead during Two
the battle and several of them fatally
wounded. The robber gang proved to
be Jim Daily's. Three of them were
killed, and Daily himself was wounded
and captured. An engineer corps that I
was with then got into Helena just after
the Regulators had come in with Jim
Daily. He was a big, ugly, savage looking
ing fellow, defiant even in his bonds.
He had many sympathizers in town, but
they were somewhat cowed by the sudden
display of spirit on the part of the
citizens and were afraid to make an effort
to rescue the big outlaw, even when
a delegation of Regulators started with
him to take him outside of the town and
lynch him.
A good many of his followers
trailed along with the party of executioners
though, among them one bronzed,
white- whiskered mountaineer, who must
have been 70 years old. And he was as
tough as he was old.
" The Regulators took Daily three
miles out of town, and ran the wagon he
was riding on under an oak tree. I don't
remember the man's but he
leading citizen and a judge, and he placed
the noose around Daily's neck himself,
threw the rope over a limb, and drove
the wagon from beneath the doomed
man's feet. But even with the rope
around his neck and he dangling in the
air he escaped death by hanging after
all. The most dramatic scene that ever
occurred, even in those tragic days in the
lawless great West came with the end of
Jim Daily's wild career. As the rope
tightened about Daily's neck and his contorting
body whirled around with its
twistings, the white- whiskered old fel
low that I spoke of raised his rifle and
sent a ball straight between the outlaw's
eyes, putting an end instantly to all the
misery the straggling rope was entailing
upon him. This action of the old desperado
was of course a defeating of the
ends of justice as it was administered
by lynch law, and a dozen rifles were in
a second aimed at the old man's breast.
But none was fired. He sat his horse
erect and defiant, and his weapon covered
the leader of the Regulators, the
Helena judge. The judge would have
been as dead as the dangling Jim Daily
if one rifle had cracked on the grizzled
friend of the outlaw. The leader of the
Regulators was not there to die, and at a
motion of his hand every rifle but the
veteran desperado's was lowered, and
the citizens marched back to Helena,
leaving the old man with his dead lead
er.
" But the hanging of Jim Daily did not
have the effect on the lawless denizens
of Helena that it was thought would result
from it. There were a few weeks of
quiet, but gradually things became about
as bad as ever. The logical successor of
Jim Daily as the master spirit of lawlessness
in Helena was a reckless
fellow named Bill Burr. He took young hold
of things, and when he fell in love with
a mysterious young woman who had appeared
in Helena not long after Jim
Daily was lynched he became even more
his demeanor. This
young woman was a beauty, and she
opened a millinery shop. She called
herself Mlle. Louise. A young Phila
delphian named Al Worrall had settled
in Helena, and the handsome milliner
fell in love with him. She spurned all
the advances of Bill Burr, and this en
raged him so that one evening, in the
barroom of the International Hotel, he
stabbed Worrall to death in the most
cowardly manner. He had no sooner
done it than a citizen who was present
shot Bill Burr dead. Instantly a friend
of Burr killed the citizen. This man
mounted his horse and attempted to es
cape, but he was brought down by a rifle
ball fired by an old miner before he had
gone a hundred yards. Two more of
Bill Burr's gang were killed in the melee
that followed, and four of them were
captured and strung_up right in the
streets of Helena, and I am afraid that I
helped to do it. On the breast and back
of each man hanged a placard was pinned
giving short notice to every friend of
Bill Burr in that town or locality to leave
at once, and the warning was so well
taken that Helena became from that day
a quiet and law- abiding place.
what do you think? The young and
mysterious milliner, who had been the
indirect cause of this bloody but beneficial
tragedy, in less than two months
married the Judge, and as I heard only
last week from a friend of mine in Helena
she is one of the leaders of society out
there to- day.
" After we got through with the Northern
Pacific railroad survey I came East,
and in the spring of 1872.
Went to Presque Isle, Me.
on some business for a lumber company
The first day I was there word came that
a store had been robbed at Ball's Mills, a
lumbering village some miles from
Presque Isle. Although this was
April, the snow was still very deep in,
Suspicion fell on a man named James
Cullen as the burglar, It was learned
that he was working at a lumber camp a
dozen miles back in the woods, and the
Sheriff of the county sent one of his
deputies, a man named Hayden, with an
aid, named Hubbard, to arrest Cullen.
The men went to the camp on snowshoes.
The next heard from them was from a
boy named Burd, who, early in the fore
noon of the day after the officers had
started for the camp, came into Ball's
Mills nearly dead from exhaustion and
fright. And what a story he had to tell!
The officers had reached the camp toward
evening. The cabin where Cullen was
staying was owned by a man named
Swanbeck. The boy Burd was the only
other there except Cullen. The
officers did not make their business
known and asked for shelter for the
night. They went to bed. Along
toward midnight the boy Burd was
awakened by a noise, and rising up in
his bunk saw Cullen, by the light of the
fireplace, chopping at Haydn with an
axe. Hubbard had already been killed,
as the
Swanbeck, who was in the next bunk.
Swanbeck jumped up and escaped from
the cabin. The boy followed him.
Swanbeck had disappeared in the dark
ness. Hurd ran aimlessly into the woods
and soon heard Cullen on his trail, and,
glancing back, saw that he had a lantern
in one hand and in the other the axe
with which he had already murdered the
two deputy sheriffs. It was evident that
Cullen was determined to overtake Burd
if he could and put him out of the way.
He could follow the boy easily on ac
count of the latter's trail in the snow
and if it had not been for a creek,
creek that
lay in his path Burd would not have been
left to tell the story that led to the
tragic denouement.
The boy jumped in the creek, waded
up stream a long distance, and crawled
into a hollow place he discovered in the
bank. He had been there but a short
time when he heard his ipursuer coming
up along the bank. Cullen having lost
the trail at the creek, and at once under
standing that Burd had taken to the
creek. The assassin
stopped directly
over the spot where the boy lay hidden,
and Burd could hear him muttering savagely
. He stood there a minute or more
and then went on up the creek. Ten
minutes later he came back again, and
stopped within five feet of where
Burd was hiding. He seemed
to
have an impression that the boy
was secreted somewhere thereabouts
and he stepped upon a fallen tree
that lay across the creek at the side
of the hollow place in which Burd was
huddled. He stood on the tree, outlined
against the sky, for five minutes, listen
and muttering. Then he went back
to the bank, and presently retraced his
steps down the creek. Burd remained
in his hiding place half an hour longer,
and then came out and made his way
through the woods to Ball's Mills, reach
ing there at 8 o'clock in the morning with
the terrible news. Four days afterward
Swanbeck was found dead in the woods,
three miles from the cabin where the
murder was committed, having succumbed
to fright and exposure.
" The sheriff of the county at once went
with a posse in search of Cullen. They
found that he had a cabin at Castle Hill,
an isolated settlement, four miles from
Swanbeck's camp, and also that he had a
wife and two children at the cabin. The
sheriff went cabin
surprise was told by Cullen's wife that
her husband was in the cellar, sharpening
his axe to go out on a chopping job. The
sheriff went down cellar and arrested
Cullen who immediately said that he
knew what he was arrested for, and declared
that he was not sharpening his
axe to chop logs, but to chop the heads
off his wife and two children, so that he
would have no encumbrance, as he had
laid all his plans to elope with a girl
living in Presque Isle.
" The sheriff and his posse took Cullen
to Ball's Mills, and were on their way
from there with him to Presque Isle,
when suddenly there arose from the
woods at the roadside a crowd of masked
men. Without a word they took the
sheriff and his men out of the wagon and
bound them. Then they took Cullen,
who had lost all of his bravado, and
whose mournings and pleadings were the
only sounds that broke the stillness of
that frosty April night, and, without
going ten yards from where the wagon
stood,
They Strung Him Up
to the branch of a spruce tree, and tying
the rope around the trunk of the tree,
every person in the crowd, as if by pre
concerted plan, went his way, the sheriff
and his men having been freed from their
bonds in the mean time. This was in
Maine, and it was three days before Cul
len's body was cut down and buried.
" I say I am fated to see lynchings and
you may agree with me when I say that
after seeing the lynching of Cullen in
Maine I made up my mind that I would
stay in New York; at least, that I would
not turn my footsteps in the direction of
any part of our glorious land where a
lynching might be not only possible but
probable. A year ago I heard that
friend, Al my
friend, Al Larwell, who railroaded with
me years ago, was
Port Jervis, N. Y., and I made a trip to
that place on purpose to see him. When I
got to Port Jervis I noticed that there
was great excitement in the place, and
mingled with a crowd that was tending
toward the centre of disturbance. I
into this crowd just in time to be borne
along to the spot in front of Prof. E. G.
Forbes's residence, where they were
stringing up to a lamp post the negro
Lewis, whose alleged assault on a white
girl had aroused the indignation of the
town. The five men I saw strung up in
Montana were bad enough to remember,
but to get in on the ground floor at a
lynching here in the East is something
that once in a while keeps me awake o'
nights, especially the one in Maine justifiable
as it was.',
