SLAIN BY A SON.
Terrible Butchery of an Entire Family in
Kansas- A Young Boy in Jail on Suspicion
of Having Murdered His Father,
Mother, Prother and Sister.
OSAGE MISSION, Kan., March 9.-Mr.
endell, living thirteen miles northwest of
town, was awakened about three o'clock
yesterday morning by a scream. He went
to the door and was met by Willie Sells,
the son of a neighbor, J. W. Sells. The
boy cried out:" Mr. Mendell, a man is at
our house with a hatchet and has hurt
father and mother; I don't know how
badly." Mr. Mendell went with the boy.
arousing J. I. Rice, another neighbor, on
the way. Upon reaching Sell's house a
most horrible sight met their eyes. In the
bed in the north room lay Walter Sells,
aged nineteen, his throat cut and the en
tire top of his head chopped off, exposing
left eye hanging up
on his cheek. Passing into the south
and main rcom, where a light was
burning, they stumbled over the prostrate
form of Mr. Sells. His head was crushed
and almost severed from his body. Near
by lay Mrs. Sells, a woman forty- three
years old. Her head was mashed and
there was a fearful gash in her throat. On
the bed in the southeast corner of the
room lay Ina Seils, aged fourteen, killed in
the same manner as the other three.
Lying near Mr. Sells' head was a bloody
butcher- knife, and on a chair a hatchet,
matted with hair and blood. The boy said
that he had been awakened by something,
and looking up saw a low, heavy- set man
with dark hair, cut close, standing in the
door. This man stepped into the
room, and reaching over. Willie struck
Wallie, who lay in the back of the bed. Willie
jumped out and dressed while the man was
still in the room. The man rushed out of
one door, while Willie went out of the other,
and started up the road on a run, Willie
after him. A short distance off stood a
man on horseback, holding another horse,
upon which the man vaulted, and both
made off. Willie then went on to Mendell's.
After the bodies had been discovered Rice
took Willie home with him, where he slept
soundly till morning. A coroner's jury
was impaneled and the subsequent investigation
brought forth much from the boy.
Suspicion rested upon him and he was put
on the stand. He swore that he had not
washed his hands since the murder, but inspection
showed that while his hands
wrists
and were clean there was
a water mark above which his forearms
were deeply incrusted with blood, which appeared
to have spurted up his sleeves.
Around his fingernails, too, was blood.
Upon removing his pants his drawers were
seen to be saturated with spattered blood,
and his bare feet were covered with the
same sanguine fluid. His feet fitted all the
bloody footmarks to be found.
The boy stoutly denied being the mur
bold front
derer, and maintained a
throughout. The conclusion of the inquest
was postponed until to- day.
The boy was smuggled into a buggy and
driven to jail in Erie for fear of lynching,
which appeared imminent. On the way to
Erie he said:" Those fellows tried to get
me to say that I did it, but I thought
it would be best not to admit it." There
is hardly a doubt but that the boy committed
the dreadful crime, though no
motive is known. Mr. Sells had in his
pocket book$ 100 in gold and$ 170 in bills,
which not disturbed, besides three
watches were.
