MOB HANGING.
THE HANGING OF THREE NEGROES BY A MOB
THE PROVOCATION AND A HORRIBLE RETRIBUTION
.
The Evansville Courier of the 4th inst.
contains the following in regard to an
atrocity already alluded to by telegraph:
One of our neighboring Kentucky towns
was the scene, a few nights ago, of a lawless
display of mob violence, which makes
another
blot the already spot-
upon
ted of the history of
pages
the" dark and bloody ground." Our
readers will remember that some weeks
: Cart
well, of Uniontown, Ky., about forty miles
below this city, was burned by an incendiary
and destroyed. The flames also communicated
to other establishments, and
Uniontown
was the scene of a fire
consuming property over$ 150,000 in value.
About two weeks ago, three negroes named
Alexander Ramsey, George Ramsey and
George Moore, former employes of Mr.
Cartwell, were arrested, charged with having
burned the distillery, and the trial
commenced
the day after their ar
rest.
Nothing satisfactory was elicited
, however, by it, save that
thirty gallons of whisky found in their
last week Moore confessed
were
possession, but
that he and his confederates had set the place
on fire. He gave as their reason that Mr.
Cartwell had ejected from one of his houses
the mother of the Ramseys, beause she was
unable to pay the rent. The confession
threw the denizens of Union
town into a state of excitement
and threats of mob violence were made last
Sunday night the officers secretly took the
negroes to Morganfield, the county seat of
Union county, which is situated about ten
miles back of Uniontown, and there con
fined them in the cells of the county
jail, but as no excitement was felt for a
day or two, it was thought the feeling
aroused in the county by the confession
had trans-
died out. Although the
portation of the prisoners had been kept
remarkably quiet, the act leaked out,
and served to renew the feeling which
had been aroused by the confession of
the negroes. From Mr. B. A. James, connected
with the form of G. Maghee& Co
who a tour through Western
Kentucky yesterday afternoon, we learn the
particulars of this terrible affair. On Tuesday
night between 2 and 3 o'clock a party of
about fiity men, mounted on horses and
WITH BLACK MASKS,
concealing their faces, entered Morganfield
from the road leading from Uniontown.
They were under the guidance of a leader,
who seemed to rule with despotic sway over
the mob, and whose commands were implicitly
obeyed by each member of the
party. They rode immediately to
the jail and a few quietly
entered the jail yard. The jailor was
aroused, and to his inquiries they replied
they had a prisoner from Caseyville whom
they wished to place in his care. The keeper
of the keys then opened the door, and a
portion of the mob rushed into the jail, but
before he could say a word, several revolvers
were placed at his head, with the injunction
that if he a voice
he would be shot. While some of the
maskers guarded the jailor, others remained
mounted outside, keeping watch
that they were not interfered with. The
leader and one or two others then took from
the jailor his keys, and commenced
in the cells for" the
to search
Ramsey boys" and Moore. The former
were found together in one cell asleep, while
Moore was found reposing on a pallet in another
cell. The negroes were gruffly aroused
from their sleep and told to come along. In
fear and trembling, uncertain as to the
of untimely disturb
meaning this
ance, they got up, and began to realize
with awakening sense that they were
the
negroes
were conducted from their cells to
crowd outside and mounted upon one of the
horses, and then led by the maskers to the
altar of sacrifice. A few were left to guard
the dismayed jailor, who saw from their actions
that they were in earnest. The mob
went to a woods about a quarter of a mile from
Morganfield, and under a big tree near the
roadside they stopped. While on the expedition
and in the jail yard not a word was
,,
spoken, but here the silence was broken.
A forch was lighted, which threw its
lurid glare upon the surroundings, revealing
terror in the faces of the captive negroes
, whose groans formed a strange
contrast to the mirthful talk and loud
laughter of some of the masked men. With
out any ceremony three ropes were thrown
over the limb of the tree and the leader
their guilt, which was freely given, and
even without time to mutter a prayer the
ropes were placed
AROUND THEIR NECKS,
and in less time than it takes to tell it they
were suspended by a portion of the mob,
and the other ends of the ropes tied to trees.
The lights were; hastily extinguished, and
mounting their steeds, the place was deserted
, the awful silence being ouly broken,
it is supposed, by the noise of the contortions
of the victims of this terrible cut
. rage. After the jailor was released he gave
the alarm, but the sentiment of the citizens
was in favor of the mob, which none dared
to oppose. On Wednesday morning the
bodies of the colored men were cut down
and placed in boxes and to
Uniontown, where they were taken buried.
