and asked its credit Cotton had received an official letter from General Grenville M. Dodge, of
Commander Turner, senfor British Bluffs, Iowa, has been selected
naval as
It is insisted that the
officer at Ounalaska, stating that he con of the Society of the Army of the
any sense a failure
sidered the Otto a just and lawful capture see, to take the place of the late
can easily be paid by
for any vessel of war of either nation. No William Tecumseh Sherman. He is
concern. Several banks
question arose in reference to her papers. President the society has had. It
company very heavily,
The Otto was delivered two days after her
mere fortuitous accident that placed
be little apprehension
severely- if. indeed, capture to the commanding officer of her in this honorable position, for the
majesty's ship Pheasant at Ounalaska. of the dead man hardly eclipses the
protected.
in which these hardy old warriors
COTION WAREHOUSE. PARNELL'S LAST LETTER.
their newly chosen chief.
Burned at Hawkins Extract from a Recent Communication to
WIFE WORTH HAVING.
, Ga. the Irish Leader's Mother.
Ga., fire in McCormick Mrs. Delia Stewart Parnell, of Borden
A Plucky Woman with a Rifle
Warehouse destroyed town, N. J., mother of the great Irish home
Jail Delivery in Texas.
. Loss, over$ 10,000. rule leader, who lies dead at his home in
A Fort Worth, Texas, a daring
1,500,000 feet of lum Brighton, England. has consented to the
at jail delivery was frustrated by
Dalhousie, N. B. Loss, publication of the following
extracts from woman with a loaded rifle. Ten
the last letter she received from her dis
confined in the County Jail made
tinguished son:" I am weary, dear mother,
for liberty and overpowered the
Council Organized.
the Cho@ taw Council of those troubles -- weary unto death- but The jailer's wife grabbed a rifle and
organization by electing the it is all in a good cause, and with help ened to shoot the negroes if they
and the assistance of my friends I am con
N. Hampton, Speaker return to their cells. The negroes
Davis Homer, Inter flent of the result. The statements of my retired and were locked up.
enemies, so often made regarding my rela
, Journalist; Isham
tions with you, are on a par with the end
Flames in a
Secretary. The follow Mansion.
less calumnies they shoot out at me from
to the Senate: J. The home of August Belmont
every bush. Let them pass. They will die
of the Senate: L. G. York was burned out and Mrs. Belmont
from their own venom. Indeed, it would
; T. W. Frazer, Jour two of her servants narrowly escaped
be dignifying them to notice their exist
, Recording Secretary. the Lurning building. In fifteen
ence."
his message. utes the house was cleared from
BARDSLEY BREAKING DOWN. roof and all its costly furniture,
Wanted to Die.
pets, and valuable paintings were
who committed suicide.
The Disgrace and Confinement Beginning while a large quantity of jewels
, Indianapolis, by
to Tell on the Ex- City Treasurer. elaborate wardrobe
was damaged
bedpost with a hand
John Bardsley has foun an occupation damage to the building and furniture
brothe: were worth about in prison that seems to agree with him and probably about$ 125,000.
lived cheaply. A number
of which he has made a success. It is that
brother got married, and
of boxmaking. and the ex- City Treasurer Successful Trial of the Patrick
troubles commenced.
has shown a degree of skill in the work
At Newport, R. I., Inventor Wood
the hallucination that that has surprised those who fail to remem successful exhibition of the Patrick
trying to beat her out of
ber that in his younger days he was a
pedo. The cylinder dashed through
blacksmith and supported himself for many
waves at a rate of twenty- five
Grain Products. years by
hard manual labor. The long hour, making the first half mile
of the Kansas State strain upon Bardsley, his disgrace, and the
minute and nine seconds and the
, has issued his final prison confinement are beginning to tel! half in one minute and ten seconds
and oats. It shows upon his health and deafness is coming
ing the record by five seconds and
for Kansas to be 58, upon him. He lives in the hope of a par
tract speed by two knots. The
of oats 39,668,045 bush don through political influence after a few
Board witnessed the trial.
product of corn is placed years' confinement.
Commission for Eartholdi
HURLED TO THEIR DEATH.
Auguste Bartholdi, the famous
Threshers Wanted.
wheatfields of North A Wagon Containing Four Persons Struck who is at present staying at
by a Train. Lake Geneva, has been commissioned
encouraging, but the de
A wagon belonging to the National Meat the city of Strasburg to execute
is more urgent than
is good, but as less Market at Erastina, N. Y., with four occu representing Strasbur; wounded
has been threshed it is pants, consisting of a man, woman, and heart, holding by the hand a child
two children, was struck by a west- bound and protected by a shield thrust
it will be lost.
train on the Amboy division of the Staten by Switzerland. The monument
a Typewriter. Island Rapid Transit Railroad at the cross presented to the city of Basle in
contest at Portland, ing in Giffords. The man and woman re brance of the war of 1870.
wrote 311 words in 59 instantly killed, and their bodies were
on a typewriter. He hurled a considerable distance. The chil Success of a Nihilist Envoy
minute blindfolded.
.
dren were picked up in a dying con President J. Rosenfert, of Section
dition and removed to the nearest house. the nihilistic order in Boston, has
Flow of Oil. word from the agent of that section
FOUR DEAD BODIES FOUND.
barrel oil gusher was cently sent to Russia intrusted
McDonald field, Pa. The portant messages to the effect that
Miller farm, and fully Rescuers Penetrate the Tomb of the Un already set sail for America, and
fortunate Richardson Miners.
the celebrated Green has been very successful in the
After four days and nights of unceasing
which is ance of the duties intrusted to
now flowing labor and some hundreds of tons of coal
his return an important meeting
had been removed by the rescuing party, held.
the bodies of four of the unfortunate
an Elevator.
miners imprisoned by running pillars at Russians Relieving the Jews
Ind., William Steinecker Richardson colliery, Glen Carbon, Pa., The St. Petersburg authorities
, employes in Severin were found. There was great rejoicing gotten their bigotry for once, in view
wholesale grocery. were
when the news was sent to the surface that horrors of the famine. It has been
descending elevator. Stein- the imprisoned miners had been reached, that relief to the starving
Dewald 1: dangerously but it soon turned to sadness and grief be given without any discrimination peasants
