says:
If these barbarities increase as they have
done during the past few years- and they are
sure to do so if not restrained- what shall
we not see in the near future? These which
horrify us today are but the ripening of the
seeds of brutality sown by ku kluxism on
the soil which slavery had prepared for its
quick germination. If these things grow in
frequency and horror, it is quite possible that
we shall read of the excursion trains running
for such entertainments and the pulpit dis
cussing, as it did of old, the duty of cleansing
the land of( colored) ungodliness by fire. We
far from it now when a min
are not very
ister proclaims the necessity of such acts
and asserts in the columns of a religious jour
nal that" no matter what the consequences
or how terrible the means, the white people
of the south are going to rule and govern the
south- law or no law, constitution or no constitution
."
But what remedy is suggested by this
aggressive south- hater? One would naturally
suppose that there Was
capable of entering
no power
the southern states and taking
hold of these alleged violations
of law. Judge Tourgee, however, is confident
that there is a way to stop lynch
ing in the south. He urges his sympathizers
to join the National Citizens'
Rights Association, and says that when
that society numbers half a million members
it will have influence enough to
force the republican party to find a way
to save negro criminals in the south from
the wild justice of the mob.
This talk can mean only one thing.
It means that an organized effort will
be made to make the republican party
revive its force bill and other measures
that will have a tendency to annoy the
south and interfere with her local matters
. Now, lynch law is a bad thing, as
a rule, but it is a mistake to suppose
that negroes sometimes suffer under it
on account of the color of their skins.
They are punished in this way because
the outrageous nature of their crimes
excites people almost to the pitch of mad
ness. But Tourgce and his followers,
instead of organizing a society to encourage
me ty and good citizenship among
the blacks, so that they would be in no
danger of lynching, are eager to persecute
the southern whites who resort to
the only methods they can think of in
their ungovernable wrath, when they
find the law powerless to protect their
women!
Let the new sectional crusade come.
The south, despite her occasional lynch
ings, is more devoted to law and order
than any other section. She is able to
maintain her right of home rule under
the constitution, and no threat of federal
force will lead her to yield to usurpation,
or surrender powers which are justly
her own. the
Another Sectional Crusade.
Albion W. Tourgee unfolds in The
Chicago Inter- Ocean new scheme
which is intended to operate against the
south.
Judge Tourgee devotes two columns to
his story of the lynchings, including burn
ing at the stake, of negroes in the south
during the past two years, and complains
the southerners never lynch a white
that man for assaulting a black woman. He
