Lynch Law in Nevada.
Wretched Condition of Society- Reign of the
Roughs -- The People's Retribution.
From the Esmeralda( Nevada Territory) Star, Feb. 17.1
Eight days ago the people of Aurora, after a long
week's patience, executed summary justice upon four as
murderous villains as were ever brought to the scaffold,
to at the end of a A state of affairs had ex
here, almost amounting to a reign of terror, for
nearly two years, but it never assumed an organized
shape until the town bseame incorporated. An election
was held, and the town council was composed of as
good men as we could boast; but the office of marshal
being an elective one, the ruflans were suce- ssful in
placing their own man in office, owing to the fact that
or five No sooner
had the marshal been sworn in, than the worst villains
that ever infested a civilized community were appointed
policemen, and, with but few exceptions, they were
of as
as ever went un
Net
aid of
lime to
. resort
hung If a quarrel sprung up at a
madey
,
the pistol and knife was AL
both night and day, became the general order of things
The gambling hells of the town were crowded at all
ready to pick a quar
rullans
matter
these
were
,
rel with sty man, no who
any of them arreated, no matter how heinous the offense
, he was released by the marshal on straw bail,
and no complaint would be filed in the justice's court
against him.
Any man going about his business in the street and
having to turn the corners was in danger of receiving
flying bullet from some drunken brute, who was as apt
to be a policeman as anything else. Miners would har
riedly transact their business on coming into town to-
evening, and then go home to remain there, not
venties
fighting, either to maintain possession of what mines
they or to get possession of others; and so jong
claims held in their suits
as their were litigation
and
were to the district court each mining
come off before,
company would have its band of perjurers and ruffians
to swear their cases at last had
come to think that they had the full control of our min.
interests and municipal affairs, so far as the public
concerned Men fell by pistol and i knife
Peace was. 1 the
even in open daylight and in our most publie streets
still the assassins would escape punishment and boldly
walk our streets, fl urishing their weapons and uttering
Imprecations in the vilest language the most insulting
impunity. Thieves, and men who would be found
gamb with on the were
appointed deputy marshals, to collect the town licenses,
and then put the money in their own pockets, never
rendering an account of it afterwards No honest man,
who regarded the value of his own life, dared to make a
complaint in a court of justice to bring these fellows to
an account.
A little over two months ago, the office of marshal
was declared vacant by reason of that officer having
for some months absented himself from the town A
Pine, the present in
.
new election was held and D .. H.
eumbent, was He duties with
ah earneatness and zeal I worthy of the highest commendation
New policemen were appointed, and af
fairs soon assumed a better appearance. Numerous
arrests were made in spite of the most dogged resistance
to the officers. But the organized bands of ruf
fans were determined to resist to the death the oficers
who might see proper to enfore the peace regulations
of the town government. The sheriff was resisted.
and of the deliberately shot
even one policemen was
at very when near attempting being shot to arrest in the one groin of. them These, and villains came
to overrule the officers at all hazards.
DECID
So long as they did not molest peaceable citizens,
their shooting and killing one another was borne with
by the people with utter indifference, and to a certain
degree the press remained silent. But when the guar-
of the people threatened and the
dians were, public
peace endangered, then every citizen felt it to be
his
the rufhaus became more insolent and defiant. A few
leading citizens formed themselves into an association
called the Citizens' Protective Union, for the
pose of assisting the officers in their duty when called
apon. This only served to rouse their anger still more.
of the people, daring them to pick it up. This was
done by the cruel and cold blooded murder of W. R.
Toharon, in one of our most public streets- a man universally
nothing could be found, save that he sent a man after
had stolen his before his own
door in daylight
The volcano of publie feeling which had long been
pent up, at last burat forth. The wrath of a long suffer
and outraged people could no longer be controlled.
The people demanded tha: justice should be meted out
upon these cold blooded assassins. The sheriff marshal
and constable, with all their deputies, were, aided by
the people in making arrests and guarding the doors of
the upon light given the throwing murder least was
sir prisons. Every information which could be
promptly given. They left their occupations almost
aniversally for the publie good. The mills were stop
ped, stores were closed, the sledge and drill in the tun
nel were no longer heard, and, moved by a common im
putes, every good citizen became at once transformed
into a soldier and shouldered his com
mon defence.
was
the district court held to try the have a special term of
coroneral Jury had performed its duty; but the people
knew th performed its duty, but the people
kne that an application change of venue would
10
granted, to be followed by the release of the murder
e
ers, as no man would be found willing to
go Canion to
give evidence against them, and thereby insure his
The people were determined that the assassins should
ve should go
harmed, but the he punishe
gulity
endurnished
must be
After
m long
.
a
week's and
patience had been guard
night and day had been performed, the jury rendered s
clear pronouncing
lians as and one as
ed with one participants unanimous voies that the principals should
citizens themselves into a organized They
regiment, elected their field and line officers, declared
calmly and to
martial law and proceeded determinedly
,,
the antece paned upales and orderly manner,
carried out in quiet
Justice was done and the people said amen.
