Mobs Trample Dignity of Court.
" The great majority of the people
of the South stand for law and order.
There are courts of justice, and no
matter what crime is charged against
a man, whether white or black, he
has the constitutional right to be tried
in a court of Justice, acocrding to law.
When the mob takes the law into its
own hands it tramples the dignity of
the courts and the majesty of the state
No can come of
feet good
under its.
such a course, but irreparable harm.
" Senator Williams, when he stands
in the Senate Chamber and approves
and advocates lynching, is not voicing
the sentiment of the Southern people:
he is misrepresenting them. Therefore
the South would be better off did
he keep his mouth closed when lynching
is the subject under discussion.
Of course, there are those in the
South who will endorse his position,
are in the minority. The
but they
great majority of the rank and file of
the people and of the leaders in the
civic and industrial life of the section
mob violence, from whatever
deplore cause. They agree with Senator Wil-
Borah Had Better of Argument.
" However, it must be admitted that
Senator Borah, even though he may be
a' South hater'.) had the better of the
argument for once, so far as it concerned
the question of the right and
wrong of lynching. It is to be regretted
that Senator Wiliams weakened
and spoiled his defense of the
South by going too far. The best people
, the thinkers and the representa-
tives and leading citizens of the South,
are with the Mississippi Senator when
he defends this section against the at
tacks of those from other sections who
would make it appear that the South
alone is the land of lynchings, but
they cannot endorse his advocacy of
lynching. Every time such a leader as
the Mississippi senator publicly advo-
lynching he hurts the South more
cates than it is hurt by its enemies.
Charlotte, N. C., Oct. 29.- Leading
newspapers of the South continue to
denounce Senator Williams of Mississippi
for his recent defense of lynching
on the floor of the United States
Senate. One of the most recent is the
comment from the, N. C ..
Observer, which says Charleston:
liams when he said:" Considering the
ultimate welfare of the human family,
there can be no justification for the
lynching of any person, and the man
who preaches it is sowing the wind
that reaps the whirlwind, no matter
black the skin of the victim may
be how."
