Four Negro Victims Of Ruling Class
$
The lynching of four Negro workers by a reactionary white mob
in one of the southern states. Note the grins on the faces of the
cowardly murderers as they observe the culmination of their work
of instilling the elementary principles of capitalist democracy into
the Negro.( Photo by courtesy of" Labor Defender.")
U.S. COMMUNIST PARTY
DENOUNCES LYNCHINGS
The Workers( Communist) Party yesterday issued from its
national headquarters in New York vigorous denunciation of lynch
ing- calling attention to several recent cases of terrorist crimes
against Negroes, encouraged and left unpunished by the ruling class
and authorities, as well as the attitude of the capitalist political
parties giving tacit approval of lynching.
The Communist statement, which sets forth the measures which
it declares the workers must fight for in the struggle against lynch
ing, is as follows
Horrible Crime:.
Three Negroes have recently been
lynched in the most horrible and
brutal manner in the state of Mississippi
. A mob of over 5,000 battered
down the jail at Brookhaven
and dragged out two Negroes who
had been arrested because they had
resisted two white men who had attacked
them with a following a
gun
dispute. The mob tied these men to
automobile trucks, dragged them
around the town, and strung them
up to an electric light pole within
50 feet of the City Hall. While they
were yet conscious, these ill- fated
blacks were lowered to the ground
mutilated, and their remains again
strung up. Among the mob were
business men, prominent city officials
, physicians, lawyers, schoo:
heads, and church leaders. At Sum
mit, another Negro was given over
by officers to a lynching mob which
hanged its victim to a tree along the
road.
Only a few days before, at Hous
ton, Texas, a young Negro was
lvnched as the democrats assembled
for their national convention. H
had exchanged shots with a detective
who had been hounding him. He
was taken from the hospital, where
he lay wounded, by five men, one
a policeman in uniform, and hange 2
from a bridge. While the body of
this young Negro swung limo and
lifeless, the democrats, assembled at
Sam Houston Hall eight miles away
showed their complete accord with
the system of lynching and exploitation
by their failure to write any
plank in their platform or even to
utter a single word against this horrible
practice of lynching.
Lynching, a Part of Capitalist Class
Oppression.
These lynchings expose once re
the system of savage repression
brutal and
