ALABAMA HANDLING LYNCHERS.
From the Jacksonville Times- Union.
Alabama is making a record which we
hope to soon see the other Southern
States imitate. A few days ago a sheriff
saved his prisoner from a mob at the risk
of his own life. Our dispatches publish
ed yesterday chronicled a battle of the
officers in defense of a prisoner against a
mob attempting to lynch him, in which
the mob was driven off and one of its
leaders was killed and another wounded,
and this morning we publish the news
that ten indictments have been found
If
against participants in a lynching.
this should continue, lynch law will be
Alabama.
come of infrequent use in
Lynch law has failed to suppress crime.
If for no other reason the laws of the
land should be given a chance.
It is a fact worthy of note that in no
contest between the officers of the law
and mobs have the former been worsted.
If experience up to date proves anything
it proves that sheriffs can defend their
prisoners if they will. They are sworn
to discharge their duties and they should
observe their oaths, however heinous the
crime of the prisoners may be.
A constitutional convention is now sit
ting in Alabama called principally for the
purpose of decreasing the negro's influence
in politics.
Measures were pro
posed before that convention looking to
the suppression of lynching. In discussing
these measures it was proposed that as
the political power of the negro was to
be reduced he should be given greater
protection. The officials of the State
seem to have caught the spirit of this
proposition and to be acting on it.
It is very rare that men have been
lynched who did not deserve death, but
cases have been known where mistakes
have been discovered too late for their
rectification. It is getting to be not in
frequent that men are lynched for
offenses certainly not the most helnous,
and unless the officials do their duty
lynchings for trivial offenses will become
more common. We congratulate our
neighbor on the progress she is making in
her work for law and order, and predict
great results from what has already
done. been
