[ From the Little Rock( Ark.) Gazette.]
The Murderer taken, convicted, and hung.- The mur.
derer of Mr. George Robinson, of Jackson county, who
was killed on the 16th ult., was taken on Saturday, the
19th, near the Raft of St. Francis River. not far from the
Missouri line, and conveyed to the spot where he committed
the horrid deed, and there hung, on Sunday ,.
September 20, having confessed his crime, and given
up the money he had taken from the victim of his
atrocity. He stated that he did not murder him for
sake of plunder, but from an impulse of the moment. the-
They were riding side by side, when the hellish thought
crossed his mind; and he allowed his victim to proceed
a short distance before him, and then shot him in the
back with a pistol. He took his pocket- book, and on
examining it, found in it between one and two hundred
dollars, which he appropriated to himself, and threw the
pocket- book away. Mr. Robinson was supposed to have
had upwards of$ 1,000 with him; in which case he must
have thrown away a considerable sum with the pocket
book, which has not yet been found. He gave his name
as James C. Johnson, and said that he resided at Green
ville, Mo. When first taken, the murderer denied the deed;
but after he reached the spot where he perpetrated it, he
confessed his guilt, and expressed a willingness to make
the awful atonement adjudged to the shedder of blood. He
was accordingly hung, in the presence of a large con
course of spectators. The murder was committed in Crit
tenden county, where there is no county jail, and the state
of society is such on some parts of our Mississippi border,
that had he been committed to the custody of the civil
authorities of the county, it is probable that he would
have been rescued by some of the villains who infest
that part of the Territory, and of whom he was no doubt
an accomplice. Under these ci: cumstances, the course
pursued by the citizens who executed him, was perfectly
justifiable, as it is better that the law should be sum: nari
ly executed, than that the country should be overran
with villains as it has been for some time past. Indeed,
many villains have escaped punishment, either through
the so negligence or connivance of those to whose custody
the negligence or connivance of those to whose custody
they have been intrusted, that, much as we are opposed
to summary punishments, a few more such examples,
where the guilt is so unquestionable, we have no doubt
would have a good effect in ridding our country of many
blond- thirsty Villains who seek refuge in our Territory
from the laws of the States, and thus fix an odium on
the honest and permanent portion of our population.
MURDER.- In the Cincinnati Post of Saturday last, are
given the details of a horrible scene, dyeing the domes
tic hearth with blood, wich occurred in that city on the
same morning. It appears that a certain John Cowen, a
cabinet maker of that place, having had a quarrel with
his wife, became enraged, and seizing an axe, struck her
a blow on the head, which was likely to prove immediately
fatal, and then, seeing the effect of the blow on his
wife, the wretch assaulted his two children, weeping at
to
her side, and despatched them both with the same bloody
instrument, and then fled. The children were aged
about four and two years. The murderer was pursued
without loss of time, and overtaken about three miles
an
from the city, brought back, and committed to jail, there
to await his trial for the dreadful deed. When taken,
he said he had expected to suffer death for the murder
to
of his wife, and deprived his children of life that they
might not be disgraced by his crime. by
