have been tremendous. The
senseless are mobs.
How hours
from all quarters, and for two
Two steamers are now on their way from Mr. Corwin electrified the multitude
Europe -- the Europa and the United States. The eloquence ing Tuesday., He in was council at Massillon with at
Europa left Liverpool on the 2d. and is now twelve sand people. Here, too, great
out, and may be expected to- day or to- mor- ed their proceedings.
. The United States, which left Southampton
Tennessee.
noon on the 3d, is now eleven days out, and
Our worthy co- laborer, Parson
doing her best, no doubt, to make as good time as
Europa. She has 170 miles more to run than the dear Jonesborough to all who appreciate Whiga integrity name
Cunard boat, and can hardly be expected to forwardness in politics- who
restive at the defeat of Mr. Clay
arrive in advance, if as soon as the Europa.
judicial investigation of the facts attending delphia surrender Convention his. for a long
late assault upon the Hon. A. H. Stephenssible man and a sterling Whig,
resulted in the commitment of Judge F. H Cone hesion to the nomination Weadmire
son for his bluff honesty and for
a charge of" assault with intent to murder." fidelity with which he has consistently
the bail was fixed at$ 10,000, which Mr. ed the Whig cause. The following
Cone gave, and soon after left Atlanta. Mr. tract from a recent letter of his,
Stephens was still doing well at the latest ac acteristic of his quaint vein:
counts, he has six wounds, and the point of the" You can say to your friends
will go for Taylor and Fillmore by
is supposed to be in his chest broken of five ten thousand that
,
or votes --
a rib. heretofore Democratic, will give
Several years ago. Mr. Elliet, the successful and last -- though not least,
tv. always democratic, will go for
engineer of the Niagara Suspension Bridge, pro Fillmore. Very respectfully, your
to the citizens of St. Louis to construct a W. G.
similar bridge across the Mississippi river at
Maine.
place. The possibility of achieving such
undertaking was then doubted, and the mat The election in Maine took place
was dropped; but now that the Niagara and of the without Loco much Foco doubt ticket. resulted We
Bridge has been completed, attention is serious days since, a letter from the heart
directed to Mr. Ellet's proposition by the peo which sets forth the true state
prospect ahead, as we think
of St. Louis. the
