Ardmore, I. T., March 30, 1896.
To the Fort Worth Gazette:
On the 25th day of February, 1896, two
outlaws, one from Missouri, the other
from Texas, rode into the town of
Wichita Falls, Tex., and murdered the
cashter of a bank and robbed the bank.
On the 26th day of February, 1896, the
people of that town turned out, with
their Sunday clothes on, and proceeded,
in a most quiet, orderly and business-
like manner- so the papers say- and
executed the murderers. The homicide,
in both instances, was deliberately and
wilfully planned and committed, and
with all the preparation necessary to
indiente express mallce upon the part
of those who participated in the kill
ings. The motive in one case was plunder
: in the other revenge: and the spirit
of outlawry was as conspicuous in
one case as the other.
All the authorities upon the subject
concur in the declaration that a homicide
committed under such circumstances
is murder. It is murder just the
same, though it be committeed by one
man or one hundred men. Yet the pur
pose of this communication can be accomplished
without entering upon A
discussion of the ethics of the double.
tragedy at Wichita Falls. Such a discussion
would be without profit, for
outside of the Fort Worth Gazette people
and the perpetrators and abettors
of the outrages, there is not any room
for any more than one opinion on the
subject.
From the time the announcement
was
made to the public of the outrages at
Wichita Falls the Gazette particularly,
and other great papers generally, and
the mob at that town. have persistently
, consistently, wilfolly and ma
lielously falsified and maligned the neo
ple of the Indian Territory, without
any reason, except to inflame the pub
He mind against the people and the
courts here, and the officers of those
courts, all of whom are zealously engaged
in an effort to enforce the laws.
which prevail in this territory. In ex
tended editorials, jo paragraphs,
box- car letter headlines, It has been in
has been
heralded the world that the robbers
were Indian to Territory outlaws, and
that the Inwlessness of the neonle here
was the sole cause of the horrible
ertmes committeed at Wichita Falls.
The napern have asserted that the
conditions in the Indian Territory af
forded ample
justification for any
erime the people of North Texas mieht
choose to commit against criminals
who violate the law in Texas, and these
cruel, nnjust and groundless sttanks
have been kent up so persistently
they now wear the semblance of truth that:
country is ready to charge all
they have become widespread and the
ready to charge all the criminal
onthrooke in the enrrounding country
to Territory outlaws,
Jt le train when those
ocorrences
frat took place, the conduct of the moh
at Wichita Falls was justined on the
mnd that the courts of Toros were
Inefficient and wholly nowerless to
enforce the laws and that criminala
went unwhinned of imatice: and it
stated by the papers that the judge was of
with bitter and cruel taunts to the
that district was assailed by the mob
effect that the courts of that state could
not be relied upon to enforce the law
and punish criminals. A malicious and
deliberate second thought formulated
the conclusion that this was dangerous
ground upon which to seek to justify
mob violence in Texas, and the daily
papers, especially the Fort Worth Gazette
and the people of Wichita Falls,
in their wisrom and malice undertook
to shift the odium of these outrages
and the responsibility for these crimes,
on another, and almost defenseless
people; so with the ineffable and cold
blooded affrontery, characteristic of
the lordly outlaw, the Gazette and the
people of Wichita Falls insisted that
the mob came out of that work whiter
than snow, and that the people of the
Indian Territory are the criminals
who ought to be held to account by the
country for the killing of the cashier
and the two robbers.
Now I hope to establish by the
all these assertions as I go along record. On
the 2nd day of March, 1836, there was
a call session of the Wichita Falls mob,
the purpose of which was to unload on
the people of the Indian Territory the
responsibility for the wrongs perpetrated
by that community, for the
inefficient courts and officials of Texas
and the uselessness of the" rangers,"
who are paid by the state to aid in the
enforcement of the law in that section.
It notified the public that the real
criminal had been discovered. That
call session adopted a certain set of
resolutions, and a portion of the declarations
given to the world at the call
session of that mob, read as follows:
" Whereas, the brutal murder of
Frank Dorsey, cashier of the City National
bank, one of our best and most
inoffenelve eltizene, by outlaws from
the Indian Territory and the enhep
quent lynching of them by indignant
citizens, demand that prompt and decisive
action be taken by all the people
of Texas, Arkansas, Migourl, Oklahoma
and Kansns, looking to the set
timent and civilization of the Indian
Territory that has long been and
still is the rendezvons so of a lawness
element of ent- throats and murderers
that continually rob and kill the in
offensive citizens who inhabit the
states bordering on sald territory: be
it therefore
Resolved, 1. That it is the sense of
this citizens meeting that the federal
government is responsible for the condition
of affairs that exist in the Terri
tory and along its borders and for the
murders and the action of outraged
citizens in resorting to lynch law in
selfdefense.
2. We call upon the state governments
of the northwestern states to rise
in their right and demand that the
Territory be opened to settlement to
the white man to the end that the
hendquarters of these murderers be
broken up and the people along the
borders be spared the crimes that are
continually being upon
them." perpetrated
the mob, and the secretary, promul
On the 9th of March, the president of
people of letter to the gated an open
Texas, Arkansas, Missouri and Oklahoma
, in which they charge the lawlessness
and crime which prevall
Texas- by their own admissions to the in
people of the Indian Territory, and say
the Federal government is to
that blame for maintaing in that country a
resort for fugitives from justice; and
they call upon the people in the sections
named to join with them in an
effort to secure from congress profee
tion from Indian Territory outlaws; and
they shamelessly and implously suggest
that the ministry of the country
preach the miserable alander they have
originated, and requested that on Sun
day, March 15, from their pulpits, flaunt
the gilded and flagrant falsehoods
which these people have given to the
world. They express in this address
their thanks to the papers of Texas
and the St. Louis press for placing
blame for the the
blame for the recent murders and robbery
on the people of the Indian Terri-
tory.
Then again on the 14th of March
there was another call session of the
Wichita Falls mob, which In due form
and with great unanimity, addressed
to a weary public another set of resolutions
, in which that people call upon-
Now the foundation for all this un
just and insensate clamor against the
people of the" Indian Territory," is
that a citizen of Texas, an outlaw, and
a Missour! outlaw, slew the cashier and
robbed a bank at Wichita Falls, and
thereupon the people of that town slew
the murderers. There has not been a
particle of testimony presented to the
public to the effect that the outlaws,
Crawford and Lewis, were" Indian
Territory" criminals. One was a Texas
man, the other was from Missouri. Not
a particle of evidence to show that they
were ever connected with any Indian
Territory" gang" or plyed their vocation
in the Indian Territory. There was
a single unauthorized statement, in a
newspaper, that Lewis had spent a
year in the" Indian Territory." No
body else ever heard of it. And this
unsupported declaration is the founda
tion for all this unjust attack upon the
people of the Indian Territory.
In the resolutions promulged by
called session of the mob, Oklahoma the
a
" The Wichita Times wants a few
newspaper men strung up. The Times
says:
" Some narrow- constructed, clay
brained newspaper men most emphatically
condemn the action of lynching
the robbers, who got their just dues
at the end of a rope in this city lately.
In our opinion, if some of these fellows
were swung to the same telephone pole
the country would be in much better
condition.
" The Times seems to somewhat
high- strung itself." be
" the Federal government, the state of
Beials of Kansas, Missourl, Arkansas,
Oklahoma Territory and Texas, the
press of the country at large, the county
offelels of said states and territory,
also the city officials of all citles within
the said states and territory, and all
boards of trade and like organizations
to thoroughly investigate the present
state of affairs in the Indian Teritory,
as has been outlined and published by
the press of Wichita county, Tex."
Then with the air and complaisance
of masters in the didactics of misrepresentation
they summarily dispense with
all investigation and outline the condi
tlon in a way that is peculiar to them,
as follows, to- wit:
" 1. That the Indian Territory is a
rendezvous for outlaws and criminals
from all parts of the country.
That said outlaws made raids
40
from time to time at will on the unsuspecting
public, robbing and killing law
citizens, outraging women
abiding,
holding up trains and cimmitting high
crimes generally.
" 3. We believe that just so long as
the Federal government provides a re
treat for criminals just so long will
crime be committed and outlaws go un
punished."
They thank the press which has go
liberally assisted them in promulgating
false and slanderous stories about
the people and the condicions in the
Indlan Territory. It is expected that all
the people to whom this appeal was ad
dressed will accept, without question,
the stories they have told and the false
hoods they have uttered; for it appears
they do not tolerate any difference of
opinion. The following clipping from
the" Weekly Press Column of the Dal
ias Morning" of recent date, will
illustrate my News meaning.
and her people are honored as a law
people; and
the authors of these resolutions and
the people who have been influenced
and excited by these wild stories over
look the fact that Oklahoma extends
south to Red River, and covers all that
portion of Texas lying north of Wichita
county and Wichita Falls, and all the
eastern border of the Texas Panhandle
country. They overlook the fact that
congress gave the Oklahoma court and
Oklahoma officials jurisdiction over all
this country named within these limits.
They ignore the fact that the Indian
Territory is the legal designation of
that country occupied by the five civilIzed
tribes, to- wit: The Chickasaws,
Choctaws, Cherokees, Seminoles and
Creeks. They overlook the fact that
the western border of the Indian Territory
is near the point where the Rock
Island rallroad crosses Red River,
some thirty- five or forty miles east of
Wichita Falls; and that the Chickasaw
Nation, beginning at the point named,
and for a distance of 120 miles or more,
covers all of North Texas to a point
north of Bonham, in Fannin county,
Texas.
Naw we have seen what meagre
grounds there are for the charge that
these crimes Wichita Falls are due
to the conditions at in the" Indian Terri
tory." The story which has been told
in the efforts to justify the outrages at
Wichita Falls is so palpably absurd
that no just and fair minded man who
will give a cursory Investigation to the
subject, can for a moment credit it.
Speaking of the Chickasaw Nation
which constitutes the southern district
of the Indian Territory, I desire to give
to the pubile a brief analysis of the
situation here. There are some ten
or a dozen banks, private and national,
in this district, and there has never
yet been an effort made to rob a bank
in the Chickasaw Nation. If this country
was infested with outlaws, with a
burning desire to rob banks, they need
not go to Texas for that
purpose.
There is scarcely a town in the Chicka
saw Nation of a thousand inhabitants
which has not one bank or more. There
has never been in the Chickasaw Na
tion a train robbery, or an attempt to
rob a train, but once since the courts
were established here, seven years ago,
and that took place some five or six
years ago. And there are three great
railroads in operation in this district;
the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific,
having some ninety miles of road; the
Gulf, Colorado and Santa Fe, with
about eighty miles of rond; and the
Missouri, Kansas and Texas, having
about thirty miles of road; all within
the limits of the southern district,
Mobs and mob violence constitute no
part of the history of the people of the
Indian Territory, while many chapters
might be devoted to the horrible af
fairs which signalized the law- abiding
spirit of the people of Paris and
Wichita Falls,
If there are" Indian Territory" out
laws in Texas, they are there because
they found the Indian Territory too
hot for them and Indian Territory
courts and officials too vigilant and aggressive
for outlaws in this section.
In 1889 congress provided for a
United States court at Muskogee, in the
Indian Territory, with certain limited
juridiction. In 1890, congress enlarged
the jurisdiction of the Indian Territory
court, and located two other courts,
one at South McAlester and one at
Ardmore, and provided a complete
system of laws for this country. In
1895, congress legislated upon this subject
again and established three districts
in the Indian Territory, the
northern, which includes the Cherokee,
Seminole and Creek Nations; the middle
district, which includes the
taw Nation Choc
taw Nation and the Southern district,
which includes the Chiekasaw Nation.
Thirteen places of holding court were
provided for by that act, four in the
northern district, four in the middle
district and five in the southern dis
.
trict These district courts have all the civil
and criminal jurisdiction which belongs
to any United States district or circuit
court, except matters in maritime and
admiralty courts. They have all the
civil and criminal jurisdiction common
to the district courts of Arkansas or
Texas, with a few limitations as to
crimes, together with jurisdiction over
all matters relating to estates. The limitation
on the criminal jurisdiction of
these courts relates to the higher feto
nles, such as murder, rape, robbery,
arson, burglary, etc .. jurisdiction of
which now rest with the Paris court.
The district court in this district has
jurisdiction of such crimes as theft
every kind, embezzlement, obtaining of
money or property by false pretense,
forgery, seduction, disposing of mortgaged
property, perjury, handling intoxicants
and all minor felonies. The
Indian Teritory courts handle a great
deal of civil litigation, suits by attach
ment, garnishment and every possible
action known to courts of law or
equity, and cases involving many
thousands of dollars are litigated in
these courts.
Now it is contended that the grand
juries in this territory are incapable of
discharging their duties, or unwilling to
discharge their duties, and that the
petit juries cannot be trusted to do
their work efficiently. There is not the
slightest foundation for such a charge
against these people. Three- fourths of
the white people here are from Texas,
and they are improved by their sojourn
here, and the people of this district,
Indians and whites taken together, are
a contented, prosperous, well- to- do and
Intelligent people, averaging up well in
these respects with the population of
Texas or any of states,
and they are as law- abiding and ns
much devoted to the enforcement of the
law as any people in the Southwest. In
fact, it may be safely assumed that the
people of this ferritory are more profoundly
concerned in the efficiency and
ability, and in the fidelity and courage
of the courts In this district and the
officers of the courts, in the discharge
of their duties than any other peole in
the United States.
The citizens of the United States here
are without any government, except
such as is them by the United
States courts afforded in the Indian Territory,
and the great zeal, energy, courage
and determination which they bring to
bear to aid the courts and jurors and
officials in this territory, can be ac
counted for on the theory that it is a
matter of self- preservation with them.
and every man in this country feels an
individual responsibility on him in the
enforcement of the laws and the up
holding of the courts and officials in
that work. It constitutes the only safe
ty for the people here.
The deliberations of the grand jurors
since I have been on the bench, have
been marked by a courage, efficiency,
energy and intelligence such as I have
never seen exceeded and scarcely
equalled in Texas. Corruption, black
mall and bribery, it has been charged.
have dishonored the administration of
the law in the hands of certain officials
in the territory, representing foreign
jurisdiction, for years. On last September
, at the town of Ryan, I called the
attention of the grand jury to these
widespread charges of abuses by pub
le officials. The grand jury went to
work and indicted the officials, who
were supposed to be influential, and
who had influential friends backing
them, and they did so in the
midst of considerable effort to intimidate
the grand jury and deter it from
doing its duty. And grand jurors all
around this district have been
fearless, prompt and efficient and equally intel
ligent in the discharge of their duties.
The first four or five months of my
service on the bench here was devoted
to the transaction of business on the
civil docket. The first important criminal
business the court did was at Ryan,
begining the 16th of September. From
that time up to this date, I suppose this
court has been engaged about sixty
five days, off and on, in the transaction
of business on the criminal docket: and
during that time there has been about
fifty- five trials for felonies, about forty
six convictions, four acquittals and five
mistrials. The result in prosecutions
for misdemeanors has been about in the
aame proportion. And I venture to say
that this work will compare favorably
with that of any court in any of the
Southwestern states.
I venture to say further, that the
marshal of this district and his deputies
are as vigilant and efficient as these
officials are anywhere in the United
States. They are straight, clean, energetic
and fearless. They are uncorrupted
by the fee system, which contaminates
everything it touches; they are
salarled officers.
The district attorney is also a salaried
officer; and I venture to say that there
is no more faithful, efficient, able and
courageous district attorney west of the
Mississippi river, and very few east of
it, superior to him. These convictions
have been secured in a court which
never charges on the weight of evidence
, never even sums up nor comments
on the testimony. The jury is
always distinctly admonished that they
the the sole Judges of the weight to be
given to the testimony and the credi
oility of its sources.
And I venture to say, that, nothwith-
standing the meagre resources at the
command of the officials of this court,
the law is as well enforced, and in as
much a terror to evil- doers as in Texas
or anywhere else in the Southwest.
It would be charitable to
that much of the wrong inflicted assume on the
of Ignorance on
people of the Territory is the outcome
of Ignorance on the part of the people
whose duty it is to know something of
the situation. The papers report that
recently a member of congress became
incensed because the people here
sought to refute the slanders against
them, and thereupon Introduced a bill
in the house to locate a United States
court at Marletta. Now, that town is
some seventeen miles south of Ard
more, where a court is now located and
eight miles from the Texas border.
proposition to looste a court at Tisho A
Nation,
mingo, the capital of the Chiekasaw
Nation, some forty miles east of Ard
more, would be a reasonable one;
this suggestion emphasizes the absurd and
ity of the other proposition and the
want of intelligent information about
this country.
There must be behind all this agitation
a settled, preconcerted purpose on
the part of those who have incited it.
To ascertain the truth and do justice
cannot be the object, for no just cause
needs the support of hypocrisy, fraud,
vituperation, malice and falsehood.
They contend as the logie of the agitation
that the Indian Territory should be
seized by the United States government
and opened up to settlement. It is true
the belongs to the five civilized
tribes and that they hold the title to
the land in fee simple, and no court in
the land would uphold legislation which
sought to confiscate these lands and
put them on the market by opening the
country for settlement. But the people
who have been foremost in traducing
these people are not handicapped by
any regard for law, truth, justice or
right.
The truth is, their purpose is( It
seems) to charge these people and the
United States government with the
responsibility for their own atrocitics
to aid the agitation in favor of a plan
to establish other United States courts
in North Texas with furisdiction in the
Indian Territory, and to furnish arguments
in support of legislation, the
purpose of which is to continue the
present system of trying citizens of the
United States charged with crime in
the Indian Territory, in the courts of
Paris, Tex., when they could just as
well be tried by the United States
courts here.
If the gossip about Washington and
the dispatches in the daily papers are
true the inflamatory publications promulgated
by the Wichita Falls people
furnished the argument to the express
companies whose
agents it is said
testifled before the judiciary committee
of the house to the effect that to give
the Territory courts full jurisdiction
would compel them to quit business in
the Indian Territory, and that the
courts and officials were in league with
the outlaws of the land, and they
could have no protectle od pity the
perjurer who uttered such a statement
and the simpleton who gave credit to
it. Thereupon, however, the commit
tee reported without opposition a bill
to repeal the law giving the Territory
courts full jurisdiction after September
next. It is stated that the bill will pass
the house if it can ever get the right of
way
. C. B. KILGORE.
