We are having April Showers. The Mr. Henry Paterson of The Original Fisk Jubilee Singers, F. J.
Bland and Elliott, and Mr. Jackson latest Chicago was
. sensation, Texas.
in our
Waxahachie
city was the the guest Loudin, manager having returned after a
The of Oilie Hall last
Mrs. H Zedrick of Chicago election took place last Monday THEY week. Mrs. Juda Rogland
is visiting. INDORSE
BETHEL has purchased
CHURCH appearance on our street of a six
years
last week a
tour
,
of Europe, Asia and Africa
the city and is the guest of Mrs. J. J. To- morrow is communion with the Say the Congregation band of youthful Colored musicians Messrs Wash Smith and Alex White of piano. will sing for Quinn Chapel Monday
Socialists
Was
Miles. Baptists. from the Pensacola Florida Orphan Detroit were doing our city the past
Justified in Refusing to Sing Young ladies leave your wax at home night April 25. Tickets 50 cents. J. T.
Asylum week.
Misses Carter and Crawford expect to The Social Star will meet Tuesday" America.". The band is composed of 17 when you go to church. Jenifer pastor
.
leave the city for Chicago where they evening for regular business. The Socialists of members ranging from 6 to 14 years of Mrs. Geo. C. Jackson visited Lockport How long will
Chicago the Afro American
congratulate- bear
will perform age whose knowledge of using brass in- last Sunday was the guest of Mrs. F. H. such acts
at Princess the
Opera House as Texarkana Joliet, IlliNis.
.,
themselves burning
Miss Mary Gille is that the leaven of their views the
visiting her sister Struments is truly remarkable Morgan and Mrs.
on The Ollie Hall
Rev. Williamson's text social problems cor- girl hanging Wm. Foster has
for next Sun is working and the Memphis lynching? resigned his position
.
Mrs.
.
Sarah Cooper of Xenia, O. in the net soloist
day is" The way to social mixture deserves especial mention not Mr. Will Brown after visiting our city No greater love can we have than to lay aa janitor
settle the and of Union Club J. D.
race that some Peterson
prob progress
lem." Mr. V. Clinton is visiting his parents toward only as a proficient performier, but a has returned to his home the
I hope a socialistic World's down
all our lives taking
the state for our his
friends.
and women intelligent men Rev. and Mrs. Clinton of this place. beginning to be apparent of society, is composer of music, many pieces they Fair city. Come again. place
will Billy
hear him..
. The Messrs
cause S. Boarders
for and R.
use C. Welch
being his From all appearance
own composition spring come
Dr. has
The Frank Johnson of Columbus, O., their encouragements. They Mrs. Moses Day
was visited
Easter service which an article by Ridgeway have been ordained as deacons
is going are raising of the
money as the
to to build blue birds were out
a new Sunday
Orph and a
be given by Misses Hughes and Carter is is paying us a visit after a long absence John Clark Ont. last
.,
Ridpath, professor week being called there
of history an Asylum. by the Baptist church, Rev's. J. F. Jackson, D. flock of cannary birds lit in Mr. Grand
expected to be a grand affair. I hope Mr. Prince in De Pauw University, on the" Wage illness of G. M. of O. F., Thompson. Johnson and S. H. Smith and J. P. Phil berry's
Marshal has made front yard Sunday afternoon.
everybody will come out his ap- System of Labor." The article
Thanks
and was
.
hear the pearance in our city, he is looking well. by Mrs. Woodman read Mr. Fred Slanghter of Hamilton, Ont., lips, assisting in the ceremony. Invitations
. are out for
It predicted APPEAL a dress party
. that THE is one of the most fearless
services was in our city for a few days last week
