contractor
tin had a scuffle with the strikers, who S. C., were burned to death
prevented him from using his revolver. which destroyed the house.
Then the shooting began. A letter from Alaska, received
Charles Gussrott, the school teacher Francisco, says a blizzard
at Lattimer, gave important testimony Chilkoot Pass on Sept. 1. One
for the commonwealth. men had a hard scramble to
At this juncture, in response to a lives.
question. Judge Lynch said that each
man would be required to give ball in GENERAL SOUTHERN
the sum of$ 4.000 or else go to jail.
Joseph A. Sinn, trust officer of the City
Trust Safe Deposit and Surety com Richmond, Va., Sept. 20.- At
pany, of Philadelphia, gave ball for don today Mr. Frank Short, a
all of the deputies, the amount required nent merohant of that place, was
being$ 256,000.
in a runaway accident. His
After further testimony the court ad eame frightened, threw him
Journed until today. deg cart and dragged him a
It is doubtful if the evidence submit- a maile over a rough road. He
ted will be strong enough to hold the most instantly after being
defendants for court. No witness has from his position. About a
yet testified that Sheriff Martin ordered" Birg" Short, a brother of
the deputies to shoot. The withdrawal ceased, was killed near the
of Attorneys Garman and McGarhen
Alexandria, Va., Sept. 20.- The
also weakens the case of the prosecu- andria Times appears this
tion.
with General Del Kemper as
Peace has been restored in the anthracite
region and nearly every col- tor. It announces that there
In- change in the political course
liery therein worked yesterday.
cluded in these were the Lehigh and paper, and that" it will continue
devoted to the strenuous
Wilkesbarre
company's
mines, employing 2,500 men. The strike Democratic principles as formulated
the platform enunciated at
was practically inaugurated by them,
and their return to work on Monday The new editor, who has
turned from China, has met
caused a stampede of the other strik
welcome at his old home, and
ers. More than two- thirds of the strik
servedly popular here.
ers in the region are now working.
The Evans breaker of A. S.
Van Richmond, Va., Sept. 20.- The
