he says: We have our people two
Americans," among
With very the faith outset of, the the nation system broken of sla- pete many races. with young Our the voters people business have, unable men to to of other com on
to the slave- trade to feed and others not to scratch These our young ballot men. This are
it, there began, with 1787, that going to assist you to read and write
of bargaining, truckling. and for yourself. Will you show your
compromising with a moral, political appreciation by assisting them?
economie monstrosity, which
1415 West Beverly Steet,
the history of our dealing with w. G. Carter and A. T. Wright,
the first half of the nineteenth tf and Others, Teachers.
so discreditable to a great peo
to
upon the next, and the burden W. S. SELDEN,
on, until a generation came
was both too weak and too Funeral Director
to bear it longer."
508 E. Broad St.
wisely remarks:
RESIDENCE AND WARE ROOMS:
One cannot, to be sure, demand of 1308 E. Leigh St.,- Richmond, Vs.
nations exceptional moral fore- Long experience and new methods
and heroism; but a certain, hard, thoroughly understood, ensure satis
- sense in facing the complicat- faction. Having made new and exten
phenomena of political life must be sive improvements in all of the branch
in every progressive people." es of the undertaking business, I respectfully
thank the public for their
again: past patronage and ask the contin
to some lack respects this; we we have as the a nation some- ly ly filled filled.. Country Country orderders orders solicited prompt.-
We, the undersigned gladly recom
inchoate idea that we are not des: mend' W. S. SELDEN to the public
to be harassed with great social
questions, and that even if we are, and generally as a worthy and faithful undertaker
,
to answer them, the fault is with Ferguson and Mr. John Heney, No
question and not with us.
1000 Graham and Marshall St., Fulton
we often congratulate our
more on getting rid of a prob
than on solving it.
concludes the warning as fol Dyeing, Cleaning
:
States,
& Repairing
behooves the United
therefore in the interest both of scien
truth and of future social reform,
carefully to study such chapters of her
as that of the suppression of
done in the most thorongh
slave- trade."
manner. All work Strictly
following in his concluding dis
first- class and Satisfaction
sertation covers the crowing infamy of
Assured.
nineteenth century- lynching:
J. W. JOHNSON,
The most obvious question which
study suggests is: How far in a
can a recognized moral wrong 712 E. Broad St.,
be compromised? And although
chapter of history can give us no Give him a call. Richmond, Va.
answer suited to the ever- va
aspects of political life, yet it
seem to warn any nation from
allowing, through carelessness and
cowardice, any social evil to Miss Hattie Rother,
."
person would have seen the Civil
with more surprise and horror
the Rovolutionists of 1776; yet Spritual Evangelist and
the small and apparently dying
institution of their day arose the Medium,
Slave Power.
From this we may conclude that it
behooves nations as well as men to do 309 E. LEIGH STREET.
at the very moment when they
Points out the possibilities of the
to be done.
present and reveals the horoscope of
LONGMANS, GREEN& Co., Publishers, the future.
Can eure all manner of infirmities.
Fifth Avenue, New York.
Give advice in matters of business,
olitics, love and marriage.
Locates lost, buried and stolen prop
A DEFENCE OF MR. ALLEN.
erty.
Consultation strictly confidential.
A Virginian in the Bay State.
ANTED: -For United States Army
W abled bodied, unmarried men, be
[ Boston Courant]
tween ages of 21 and 30, Citizens of
I. B. Allen, who has been elected the United States, of good character
the Governor's Council, did that and temperate habits, who can speak,
the politician had no idea could read and write English. For informa
accomplished; he went into a strong tion apply to Recruiting Office, 624
Democratic district and made a fight East Broad St., Richmond, Va.
his party and won. This was a
victory for Mr. Allen, and it was
expected of him. Some have re
white men did not
PATENTS
marked that the
under consideration the kind of
Campaign this was when they gave
the nomination. This is a place
no black man has ever had the CAVEATS, TRADE MARKS
pleasure of being elected to in the his COPYRIGHTS.
of this State, and the race should CAN I OBTAIN
A PATENT For a
proud of the manly way in which prompt answer and an honest opinion, write to
MUNN& CO., who
Allen have
has made bad nearly
his fight fifty years
. No oth'
experience in the patent business. Communica
black man
tions
could
strictly
have made confidential
the. A Handbook of In
formation concerning Patents and how to ob
successful fight but Mr. Allen. The tain them sent free. Also a catalogue of mechanical
and scientific books sent free.
Courant thought it would be only a
Patents taken through Munn& Co. receive
at nothing but Mr. Allen maintain special notice in the Scientific
American, and
that thus are brought
he could widely
win before the public
. and came
with
out out cost to the inventor. This splendid paper,
issued weekly
right; this was a game which only, elegantly illustrated, has by far the
largest circulation of any scientific work in the
politician could see his way out. The world.$ 3 a year. Sample copies sent free.
question now is, what does this place Building Edition, monthly,$ 250 a year. Single
eoples, 25 cents. Every number contains beau
? We are informed that it is con tiful plates, in colors, and photographs of new
houses, with plans, enabling builders
sidered to be a place of honor, and not to show the
latest designs and secure contracts. Address
MUNN
place of lucrative office; but we are& CO., NEW YORK. 361 BROADWAY.
there is a thousand dollars allowed
each councillor for expenses; but ANTED WEEKLY- 100 Cooks,
are many things to be considered W Laundresses, House- maids, Wai-
many have already been given to
tresses and Nurses for New York
as to whether the place ought to and other Norther cities. Wages from
filled by a man like Mr. Allen We$ 3 to$ 5 per week. Transporta-
out boldly and say yes. tion furnished. R. W. ELSOM'S, Em-
is a good representative race man ployment Agency, 417 E. Broad Street,
every sense of the word. He is a Richmond. Va.
with ability and has excellent
judgement and ready wit. He was
in Hampton, Va
., was educated Lincoln
Flats
,
is a graduate from the Grammar
under General Armstrong and
looked upon as being a bright New York
man.
came to Boston and for a time 261& 263 W. 47th Street,
and attended evening schools,
Between Broadway& 8th Ave.
the work in General Butler's
, and reading law for a long time For Respectable Colored Families.
the
has been a life long Republican
has done much for the party. He Rent From$ 8 a Month,
capable of handling many questions
his party. But this is not all that leotrie Bells, Door Openers and Let
ter Boxes.
us in the face at this time con
Mr. Allen. Two questions
Apply to,
be answered by many of the par
friends. Is he not an unexpected ANITOR ON THE PREMISES.
that came without the wedding
garment? What will we do with him?
are the questions now to be an
by the whites and blacks who
the
on anxious seats too, and are WHY
pondering over the fact, that he has
run us and got the leadership.
Some one must answer these ques CERTAINLY
. We say, yes. He got the dead
on the boys, and would be leader.
cannot be denied but what Mr. Allen you won't miss
sturdy politician and has made
seeing JURGEN'S line of furni
very bright moves for the race. ture and Carpets.
has made to moves against Mr
Sullivan: his first move was when It is the biggest and best in
into the
went city
the caucus of his and the prices
are the
and put A B. Lattimore in nomi lowost.
against Mr. Sullivan four years
We ean sell you cheap goods
and then pulled off his coat for
party; and by his faithful and un or fine goods for cash or credit.
efforts cut the 6000 majority Corae in and see us.
so that when the count was fin
We want your TRADE.
Mr. Sullivan's distriet had only
votes ahead of Mr. Lattimore
when he was not after Mr. Sullivan C. G. Jurgen's Son,
Campaign, Mr. Sullivan always
himself felt as a strong candi
421 E. BROAD ST.
These and many other acts have.
us feel that we had in Mr. PURNITURE,
future leader. Let us not forget Allen his
