.
Interesting from California.
We had determined to make another appeal in behalf in
of California, but we are compelled to postpone it till to- of
morrow. Meantime we lay before our readers the following
very interesting but thrilling letter, for which
are indebted to Gen. Jesup, as we are preparing for ters
. the we press.
We understand that a letter is received from an
that
officer in Commodore Jones's squadron, of the 7th Janu-
ary. The Ohio was then at Mazatlan. Reports had ceded
, Diego of the dragoons
: been received of the arrival at San
and a company of artillery, under Colonel Washington.
of who had gone across from Camargo, and passed through of
, Monterey, Saltillo, Parras,& c.
ize
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA,
to
December 25, 1848.
of
MY DEAR SIR: Commodore Jones has but this moment informed
me that the Ohio will sail to- day for Mazatlan,
and I take the opportunity for forwarding a few public
letters. I also enclose two or three private letters, this
being the only means of getting them to the States. Will
office in Wash-
please to have them sent to the post
you
the
ington?
Since I last wrote to you, the affairs of this country have Clay
.
constantly getting worse. We have
, been no government
here, either civil or military, and the country is
, full of lawless men, who are committing the most shock- been
ing outrages. Murders and robberies are of daily, and from
. I might almost say of hourly occurrence. Not an arrival
it but notifies the
of occurs from the north, south, or the interior,
community of new acts of villany which go unpunished. 121
Within six weeks more than twenty murders have oc-
re- curred in a white population of less than 15,000 souls. over
The people are now acting in self- defence; and four or
of five days since, three men were hung by Lynch law, sixty of
the miles from this place. It is of the last importance that
the distressing condition of California should be impress- the
ed those at Washington who have the to
upon power
apply a remedy. The people are now preparing to or train
provisional government, ⚫ but
ganize a
• •
should Congress give us a territorial organization at York
the present session, it will supersede the popular local
, organization now taking place, but which cannot go into
effect before the ensuing summer. The United States|
re-
revenue laws are now in force here, and will yield
an income of say$ 450,000 the ensuing year, and per- the
. haps more, and four- fifths of this amount will be col- with
lected at this port. Much dissatisfaction exists at the be
payment such a tax on the part of the inhabitants,
without either of a government or a representation. This the
without either a government or a
ground from day to day. of
. feeling is gaining
•
I wrote you a very long semi- official letter some time"
since,( September 18,) going at length into the history of rectly
the gold mines. I trust that you have received that com- ally
munication, as it accompanied other official papers, all of old
which, I am informed, were correctly sent from Mazatlan
to Vera Cruz about six weeks since. I have only time ner
. now to inform you that everything stated in that letter in
has been more than realized up to this date. The gold
mines continue to be as rich as before, although the
rainy season has caused many to suspend their work. prove
There can be no doubt but that at least$ 4,000,000 of gold,
. at$ 16 per ounce troy, has been taken from the mines.
The most accurate estimates I am able to make show that a
$ 1,500,000 have been sent from the country, and$ 1,000,- New
50 000 of it has gone from this port. One vessel took$ 400,- is
000. Two- thirds of all that has been exported has gone
to foreign countries, and, consequently, to foreign mints.
I am, dear sir, in great haste, yours truly,
J. L. FOLSOM.
left
of General,
Washington JESUP, D. C.
