TO WATSON CHARGES
ARMY DEFENSE VOICED
WASHINGTON, Jan. 11.- Army officers were called in today by the senate committee
testimony investigating of former charges service that American men as to soldiers the alleged had illegal been hanged executions in. France to check up on
Dr. H. E. Ross of Danville, Ill., a battalion surgeon with the 16th infantry, declared
he heard of no lynchings at Gondrecourt that he never heard of any hangings in that
locality. Robert Harrison, of Wilmington, and N. C., had testified that he saw a Mexican
lynched near Gondrecourt.
" If a man in the 16th Infantry had
been hanged as charged would you
have heard of it?" Chairman Brande
ges asked.
" Unquestionably," he replied.
Senator Watson presented to the
committee an affidavit by J. A. Mc-
Donald of Youngstown, Ohio, setting
forth that he was at the Bassens prison
in France, when Private Fitzgerald
was shot and killed by a Sergeant
Cooper or Kuippa, of Newcastle, Pa."
McDonald said he was ready to testify
in support of recent testimony to
the effect by Edward Duner of San
Francisco.
Details of the execution of a soidier
at Gievres, on June 20, 1919, were giv-
en by Col. Charles J. Symonds, of
Camp Sherman, Ohio, who was in command
there at time. The gallows,
he said, was erected the the night of June
19, the execution was secret and was
not known generally until the next
day.
" I saw no reason for making it pub-
lio because the crime was not com-
mitted at Glevres," he added." I dl-
rected that nobody should attend but
a certain number of witnesses."
" Was there any other gallows at
Glevres?" Chairman Brandegee asked.
" Not while I was there, from Feb-
ruary, 1918 to July 1919."
Some witnesses heretofore had testi-
fled that guards had told them of the
hanging of upwards of a dozen sol-
dlers at Gievres.
Colonel Symonds was shown a plc-
ture of a gallows at Gievres, as submitted
by a former service man.
" It corresponds closely to the one at
Glevres. I believe it is the one I ordered
erected there," he said
Questioned regarding testimony. that
, two negroes were lynched near Glev
res, Colonel Symonds said he could
not conceive of anything of the kind
happening without a report of it
reaching him.
Senator Watson, Democrat, Georgia,
whose charges of illegal executions led
to the investigation, sharply cross examined
Colonel Symonds concerning
the" secrecy surrounding the execution
at Glevres."
" Was the soldier hanged in a uniform
?"
Senator Watson asked.
body
" Yes
The
.
was taken down
and burled in the regular way. The
grave was in a separate part of
cemetery." the
