Mosier and the Charlie Ross Case.
The sensational story about the murderer
Mosier being a brother of the
kidnapper of Charlie Ross and of his
asking for time that he might tell the
story of his abduction, seems to be exciting
some interest in the east. The
New York Times comments editorially
upon the matter at considerable length,
and arrives at a very sensible conclusion
, as will be seen by the following ex-
tract:
William Mosher was a hardened and
habitual criminal. He was so well
known to others of his class( most of
whom regarded him with the
respect which even criminal
accomplishments and immunity
from detection inspire) that it would
be very natural that any person bearing
a name resembling his would be willing
to claim relationship or complicity
with the slain burglar. The romance
of crime draws into its fascination the
criminal and the weak together. Having
once pretended that he was nearly
allied to Mosher, the child- stealer and
house- breaker, the Cheyenne rufian
would be sure to attempt to save his
neck or divert the attention of his volunteer
executioners.
Moreover, the
St. Louis clue, whatever it was, was
examined by Mr. Christian K. Ross a
few days since, and it is announced that
he is satisfied that there is nothing in
it. The tale from Wyoming, it would
appear, has only revived interest in the
crime without throwing any light on
what must remain a baffled mystery.
Speaking of the murderer's lynching,
the Times says: He was taken from
the jail, carried to the woods, and
hanged."
It is probable that a thorough and
exhaustive search might reveal a tree
somewhere within fifty miles of Chey-
enne big enough to hang a man on, but
as long as telegraph poles are so handy,
and trees are so scarce, the former will
undoubtedly continue to be the favorites
with the conductors of neck tie
parties. The Times seems to think we
live in the woods out here, which is so
far from being the case that there are
probably more and bigger trees within
balf a mile of the New York
than there are in all Cheyenne. postoffice
