on steadily, if he be not impeded.
" What shall we do with him?" I see
no reason to believe that he will go to
Liberia, or to Mexico, or to British
Honduras, or to any other country beyond
that of his nativity. Yet if I were
of his race I would fly from any part of
the South in which the franchises of
mankind cannot be enjoyed.
It is grievous to know that the Negro
does not possess his natural or his constitutional
rights in some of the Southern
States. It is inexpressibly horrifying
to me, as a Christian or as a believer
in the commonwealth, to read the
ever- recurring reports of the torturing
and lynching of colored people in sundry
States of the South. But of these
wrongs I speak not here.
The very best thing we can do for
the black man, or for the white, is to
strive with all our might to promote and
secure establishment of his inalienable
rights the. JOHN SWINTON.
affronted at every step, or with few exceptions
. He is never safe from insults
or even violence, and his wrongs frequently
wait redress till the great assize
, where all wrongs are supposed to
be righted and all wrong- doers punish-
ed. The mub, too, sometimes( Port Jer-
vis June 1, 1892, for example) seizes
him for sacrifice, and outraged justice
folds its hands in helplessness or indifference
.
If the North desires the elevation of
the negro it must clear its skirts. Injustice
is excusable nowhere and to no-
body, but if the South is inexcusable
the North is triply inexcusable, because
the natural temptations to oppress the
inferior race is ever present and ever
strong South, while such natural temptation
scarcely exists North. So long,
therefore, as injustice to negroes,
whether positive, such as violence, or
negative, such as denial or curtail
of rights, prevails North, elevation
is well- nigh impossible, because
one wrong North will be made to justify
hundreds South, one outrage North
be made to justify thousands South,
and one lynching North be made to
justify innumerabie lynchings South.
A heavy responsibility rests upon the
North, whose temptations are few, to
treat the Negro not only justly but
generously, not only to place no impediments
in but to take them out of his
path, not only coldly to leave him to
work out his own salvation, but to extend
fraternal, heiping, sympathetic
hands. When the North thus acts, it
may then with hope appeal to the
South to do likewise, but until the
North does so act the most fervent, elo-
quent patriotic appeals will fall
, and the
