The lynching of E4 Hill and George
Parker at Colfax on the 91 inst. was a
most deplorable affair. The Post- INTELLIGENCER
has never disguised its opinion
that the failure to convict Hill of murder,
or at least of manslaughter, was a gross
miscarriage of justice, bat lynching Hill
does not mend the matter in the least.
The question of the guilt or innocence of
the party lynebed by a mob cate no figure
in the case at all, and it does not make
society a whit safer against such crimes as
that for which Hill received a grossly inadequate
sentence. When a people grow
so indifferent to their duty to see to it
that none but vigorous men are made
prosecuting officers and none but high-
minded sheriffs are elected to draw a jury
they must expect just such verdicts as
were rendered in the Hill case and no
fraction of the people can mend their indifference
to the fact that eternal vigilance
is the price of good government by murdering
a helpless prisoner when a miscarriage
of justice takes place.
Hill would surely have been convicted
of murder in any great city east of the
Mississippi, and if an energetic, sealous
prosecuting officer can get a decent ver-
diet out of such juries as are obtained in
the great cities of the land he certainly
can obtain one from a jury obtained in
Washington if the sheriff does his duty in
making the jury lista. trouble is
up The
that many of our sheriffs are worthless
men like the one who permitted the soldiers
at Walla Walla to lynch& prisoner;
many of our prosecuting officers lack
either brains or integrity; they are more
political" Cheap Johns."
The case of Ursula Unfug, who murdered
Thomas Henderson Boyd, was as
gross a miscarriage of justice as that of
Hill, but the woman was not lynched for
two reasons: probably the sickly sentimentalism
that thinks there is sex in
crime protected her, and probably the people
of Beattle are too intelligent not to see
that no miscarriage of justice is corrected
by mob law. The murder of Dawe by
Murphy was another case in point. The
trouble lies with a false public opinion,
which has so little respect for the
ery of justice we devise through the machin- ballot
box and the legislature that it allows it to
be administered by weak or corrupt prose-
outors or wooden- headed, sentimental
Juries. When we have once delegated the
powers of life and death to our courts,
legislatures, prosecut ing officers, sheriffs
and juries we must stand the consequences
until we can correct our own
blunders.
To murder a helpless prisoner who is in
the hands of the legal and judicial machinery
of our own deliberate devisement
is an act of senseless barbarism and boyish
folly; it indiets our civilization as unfit
for free government. It does no
good, but does immense possible
immense harm. It gratifies
the feeling of personal vindictiveness that
some men mistake for justice; it buildozes
a decent court and upright jury, who are
afraid to try a case in accordance with the
law and the testimony lest the mob may
prove the highest court of appeal and murder
the prisoner. If the mob is the highest
court of appeal why create any courts;
why enact any forms of law? Why not dispense
with all this delegated machinery of
Justice, of life and death and return to the
days of tarbarism when might made right
and the mob on the village green or town
meeting run mad decided by a show
of hands whether any accused man should
live and move and have his being?
If a mob because of a probable miscarriage
of justice may murdor a helpless
prisoner, it may rob a man of his liberty
or property without due process of
law, and our boasted civilization becomes
nothing better than a nest of passionate
pirates. Miscarriages of justice are the
fault of the people, who devise solemnly
its machinery and are then totally indif.
ferent to its administration until some
gross miscarriage of justice ronses popular
indignation, and instead of blaming our
selves for the situation we seek to right
mal- administration of law by anarchism.
We are as silly as the fellow who smashed
a telephone with an ax because he could
not hear distinctly through its ear trumpet
, forgetting that the sane remedy was
to correct the defect in the telephone or
find out it his own ears were not at fault.
Eternal vigilance is the price of good
government, and nothing is more absurd
for a free people than to stand menacingly
outside a court room and say:" If
your verdict pleases ua, very well; if it
does not, we will murder the prisoner, or
rob him of his property or his liberty."
There is no argument whatever for lynch
law. Law is devised for the protection of
society, not for the vindication of the personal
vindictiveness of a mob, a faction of
the people, stupidly pluming themselves
on being the whole people and assuming
the right to break the laws of the state
made by the whole people
for the
whole people. The whole
argument
of an appeal to the higher
law" in a free community is most
absurd and pernicione, so long as the ballot
box is free. In a despotism
there is no ballot box there is seeming where ex-
