ACT OF UNUSUAL ATROCITY
ITALIAN AUTHORITIES REGARD
LYNCHINGS AS VERY SERIOUS,
Report- Attempt Made
Tallwin Hob Made
That Separate Attacks on the
WASHINGTON, Aug.& -The state department
has received from the Italian an
thorities a copy of the complete report
made by the Marqu's Romano, secretary
of the Italian embassy here, on his personal
investigation of the recent brach of
Sve Italians at Tallulah, La.
The report presents the affair in a serious
light. As a whole, the Italian authoritie
view the matter of the lynching as one of
unusual atrocity and without the mitigating
circumstances which had been urg-
in the previous affairs of this kind.
In describing the first affray which led up
to the Irnching, Marquin Romano's report
states that Dr. Hodges was the first to
draw his weapon, and that not until he had
fired one shot and was about to fire the
second one at Charles Defatta, who was at
that time prostrate on the ground, did the
brother, Joe Difatta, fire his shotgun from
the store near by. This last shot, it is
polated out, was in defense of the fallen
brother and was pot a wanton attack up
on Dr. Hodgen
The circumstances ing to the affair
are described in detail. According to
this account, Charles Difatta was alone
when Dr. Hodges passed. There is no effort
made in the report to obscure the fact
that Chas. Difatta made the first offensive
overture. But it is contended that this
was not accompanied by the use of firearms
or even a movement to Craw them.
It is said, however, that Charles Difatta
upbraided Dr. Hodges in an offensive way
for having killed an animal, and accompanied
this by a blow of the fist. Then,
it is stated, Dr. Hodges shot at Difatta.
Whether or not the shot took effect it was
not possible for the Italian authorities to
learn, as the bodies of the men, after being
lynched, were disfigured and disposed of.
But at all events, it is stated that Charles
Difatta was on the ground following the
shot from Dr. Hodges' weapon.
At this point Joe Difatta made his appearance
, and seeing his brother down and
a second shot about to be fired, shot at Dr.
Hodges.
Then followed the lynching of these two
Italians, Joe Difatta and Charles Difatta,
The mob took them before they had been
arrested.
Up to this point, according to the Ital-
lan report, only these Italians had figured
in the affair. The report goes on to state
that throughout the occurrence, the three
other Italians- Frank Dilatia, Joseph Fu-
diclo and John Gerami- were in another
street, and did not know what was occurring
. It is stated that they did not take
part in the attack on Dr. Hodges, and
that they did not even know of it until
some time after, when the local officers
came to arrest them. This arrest was accomplished
and the three Italians were
actually placed in jail.
The report then brings out the alleged
fact that the mob, having already lynched.
Charles and Joe Difatta, turned their attention
to the three Italians under arrest.
Two of these men. Joseph Fudicio and
Frank Difatta, were first taken from the
officers and lynched.
Subsequently and some little time er-
ward, the mob returned and took John
Cerami and lynched him.
Particular importance is laid upon this
feature, while it is said there may have
been some extenuating circumstances in
visiting such summary punishment upon
those immediately concerned in the affray
with Dr. Hodges, yet the time elapsing before
the second and third lynchings is
regarded as an of particular
atrocity. element
The full report has been forwarded to
the Italian foreign office and a copy of it
placed in the hands of the statement
. depart-
NEW ORLEANS. Aug. 8.- Marquis Ca-
millo de Romano left last night for Wash-
Ington. He was sent here as an envoy extraordinary
from the Italian embassy in
Washington to investigate the recent
lynching of the five Italians at Tallulah.
The report of the special envoy and that
of Gov. Foster will clash at nearly
point. every
