ILLINOIS LYNCH LAW --- Since our account
of last week, with regard to the lynching
tragedy in Ogle Co., Illinois, we have
received conflicting and contradictory statements
through the papers, of the circumstances
connected with that transaction. ---
From all that we are able to learn, it would
seem the mers prudent portion of the people
, are far from justifying the summary
trial and execution of the two Driscalls, for
the alleged murder of John Campbell. A
Coroners inquest has been held upon the
bodies of the Driscalls, and the jury have
returned a verdict of wilful murder! This
then, is likely to result in serious business
to those who assumed to take the law into
their own hands.
We learn that immediately after the mob
had wreaked their vengeance upon the
lives of two Driscalls, they repaired to the
residences of all the Driscalls and expelled
the widowed and orphaned families, and
burnt their houses to the ground. It is also
stated that money and valuable papers,
were upon the persons of the Driscalls at
the time of their being shot, which were
abstracted from their pockets by the mob.
The Driscalls were the owners of
ble farms, which are under a high state valu- of
cultivation, and covered with extensive
crops of growing grain. The mob have
forbidden under the penalty of death any
persons from harvesting the crops.
Bridge, whom we stated last week as
being one of the murderers o Campbell, has
been arrested, tried, and acquitted. We
learn from the Galena papers, that the office
of the" Rockford Star," was entered
by the mob on the night of the 6th instant,
and the type and fixtures so much injured
and mutulated, that the paper has been
obliged to discontinue. The alleged cause
for this transaction is, that the Star has
spoken out in condemnation of the proceedings
of the mob.
In a good government Lynch Law can
never be justified. Lynch Law is the
stepping stone to anarchy, misrule and un-
controlable violence. To say that the laws
of the states, are inadequate to perform the
demands of human justice is a libel up
,
our government and institutions. It is a
foul charge, which the enemies of republicanism
in Europe, have ever attempted
to fasten upon us, but one which we in
theory have ever repudiated and denied.
The lynchers of the Driscalls, plead in justification
that the friends of good order,
were too weak to enforce the law, and
bring the offenders to merited justice .---
This cannot be true. The same power
which was brought into requisition to bring
the Driscalls before a lynch tribunal, was
amply adequate to have brought them before
a legal court of the State of Illinois.
The laws of Illinois for the apprehension,
conviction, and punishment of felons and
murderers, are as speedy and as rigid
in any other State in the Union. as
