him of the servants at the wedding, and took a
ley lost a negro man; the man's wife was one
piece of the cake; he ate two mouthfuls, and
not liking the taste of it, ate no more- yet that
killed him. An old lady by the name of Edens
made the cakes, and she was poisoned together
with her son and negro girl; the girl is dead,
and her son not expected to recover. The butter
that was left at Sander's was thrown out,
and some fowls ate of it and died in a few minutes
. Allen Haley and his mother were the
only persons at the wedding not poisoned.-
They came late after the guests were served,
and ate with the family, partaking of the same
food they did, even to the cake: Old Wilkin-
son insisted on cutting a fresh cake for them,
but they refused and escaped death by their refusal
. The lady that made the cakes, Mrs. E.
went on the morning of the wedding day to look
at the cakes, in the smoke house, where she had
put them, and found that the covering she had
put on the top of them was removed from all
except one that was covered with a custard pie;
they looked dark and discolored, and she took
some loaf sugar, which she grated and put over
them, thinking it strange that shey were so disarranged
. Old Wilkinson and his wife and
Morris's wife were examined before Esq. Sanders
, who committed them to prison. Charles
Alexander bailed the women, and Wilkinson,
was taken out by a writ of habeas corpus before
Probate Judge, Lester, and set at liberty. He
was afraid to leave the house during the day,
as there were persons determined on killing him
During the night he escaped on Morris' horse
which Morris brought to him. Eight persone
are in pursuit of him, who have sworn to kill
him on sight. Morris is Wilkinson's agent i
he was ordered to leave, or he would first be
whipped and then hung. He refused to go and
we may therefore expect that he will be made
short work of.
I wrote you in my last, that the negroes were
suspected of having been hired to poison the
food. Such is not the case, as the negroes are
all poisoned, they not belonging to Wilkinson.
At the last accounts the pursuers were but a
few miles behind Wilkinson, headed by Mr.
Castleberry, who was one of the poisoned; and
lost a sister; he swore he would follow him to
the end of the world, being bent on taking his
life. I have seen some of the survivors; they
are black under the eyes, and their finger nails
and the ends of their fingers, are black; they
look like walking ghosts. They all think that
health and strength are gone, being every one
unable to do any laborious work. Poor souls!
S
In relation to the above case the Houston
Telegraph says that Wilkinson confessed that
he had given the arsenic to the cook purposely
to be mixed in the cake, and he cautioned the
bridge and other members of the family not to
eat the cake. He belonged to the Moderater
party of Sabine, and he stated that he took this
opportunity to destroy as many Regulators as
possible, to avenge himself for the injuries they
had inflicted upon him and his friends.
FANTASTIC FREAKS OF ELICTRICITY.The
Albany Argus of the 15th gives us the following
fantastic tricks of the lightning, the storm
and the Telegraph:
A severe storm passed directly over the city
yesterday afternoon. It was of but short duration
, but quantity of rain which fell was very
great. The lighting was vivid; but we heard
of no aneident resulting therefrom. The heavy
rains during the last ten days have given the
thirsty earth a thorough soaking. We had nu
from the south last evening, the line being out
of order in consequence of the storm. Atmospheric
electricity during most of the day had
complete possession of the line. and until the
storm pass over this city, it was impossible to
obtain any communication from the south. At
about half- past two o'clock a most violent explosion
of electricity took place in the telegraph
office, disabling the relay magnets of
both lines. The wires attached to the relays
and to the battery were melted off, and the entire
line to New York rendered for a time perfectly
useless. The western line as far as
Rochester was got into operation during the
evening; but nothing could be obtained fiom
New York. It was the most serious disaster
the line had sustained from atmospheric electricity
since it has been opened. At Troy, too,
we understand the wires were melted from the
battery and relay magnets.
TOTAL LOSS OF THE SHIP MARY ELLEN, OF
NEW YORK.- The ship Mary Ellen was totally
lost, with three of her crew, on the 9th of Feb-
ruary, bound for New York, with a full cargo,
chiefly teas.
She struck on a large ledge of reefs on the
east side of the Island of Lubi. Soon after
striking, as the ship went over on the starboard
side, the masts were cut away. She righted,
but soon broke into in the middle; a heavy sea
and surf washing every thing but of her.
Capt Dearborn and twenty of the party made
out to reach the shore with the help of pieces
of plank. This they effected after swimming
and wading through the surf for upwards of
three hours, but not without losing three of
their number, whose strenght gave out, and
were washed off and drowned. The remainder
of the crew arrived at Singapore on the 15th of
March.
LYNCH LAW. Wilkinson, the man who at
San Augustine, Texas, poisoned a large wed
ding party, it is said in the Houston Telegraph,
was overtaken in his flight by a party of the
regulators and was hung by them. He belonged
to the moderator party of Sabine, and he
said that he took this oppotunity to destroy as
many regulators as posible, to avenge himself
for the injuries they had inflicted upon him and
his friends. He has made fearful atonment for
this horid crime; others, may be implicated and
the bloody fude of the regulators and moderators
may be renewed.
PRESERVATION OF MILK.-M. Dirchoff, the
Russian chemist, who some time since discov'd
the process of converting starch into sugar, has
lately made several experiments upon milk; the
result which he has arrived at is curious. He
is said to have found a mode of keeping milk
for use for an indefinite space of time. The
process of preserving is this: he causes new
milk to be evaporated over a slow fire, until it
is reduced to a dry powder. This powder is
then put into a bottle hermetically sealed.-
When the milk is wanted for use, it is only to
dissolve some of the powder in a reasonable
quantity of water, and the mixture so dissolved,
will have all the qualities as well as the taste
of milk. Farmer& Mechanic.
" Bob, is that dog of yours a pointer?"" No." he
is half hunter and half setter. He hunts for bones
when is hungry, and sits by the stove when he
is satisfied he."
