[ Correspondence of the Baltimore Clipper.]
WASHINGTON, Sept. 18, 1846.
Novel Affair. The good people of Eleventh
street were thrown into great excitement, by
the assemblage of an immense crowd on Mon-
day last in that vicinity. The causs belli seems
to have been as follows For several years past
a couple of maiden ladies, somewhat advanced
in age, have occupied a house in the street
above mentioned, the property of a gentleman
in the Bank of Metropolis. For sometime back
he has been unable to obtain his rent, or to get
rid of his tenants, although offering them a
full release from former liabilities, if they would
quit the premises! Finding all efforts in the
matter unavailing, he called to his assistance
an officer, the terror of widows, hogs and dogs,
who proceeded on Monday to dispossess them
in a very summary manner, laying violent
hands on one of the ladies and turning her out
of doors. But still another foe was in the field
- -the victory was not yet won- and vain were
the efforts of this redoubtable hero to drive her
from the fortress, which hitherto, with barred
doors and fastened windows, had stood a three
years' siege- impregnable as St. Juan de Ulloa!
A rumor of what was going on soon spread
throughout the neighborhood- the crowd increased
- it was whispered about that the brother
of the ladies had bought the house, had
paid$ 600 on it, but died before the balance due
was settled. Their sympathy was awakened-
indignation was aroused, and the low mutter-
ings of the multitude indicated clearly an approaching
storm! So thought the officer.
A messenger was quickly despatched for
Capt. Goddard, who barely arrived in time to
prevent most serious consequences. By his or-
dee lady who had been most rudely put
out was admitted to the house. The officer
was advised to take a" back track." The
crowd got wind of it and pursued him he
drew a revolver and under cover of the excitement
it created managed to elude the enraged
Pursuers, who seemed fully bent on trying him
by" Lynch Law!" So ends the matter for the
present. To- morrow the Deputy Marshal undertakes
the settlement of this complicated and
exciting matter! we trust with better success
and less harshness to the parties concerned.
Our city is certainly very sickly. Five funerals
went out yesterday- a very unusual num-
a ber here. King Frost however is coming to
throne and will deal more kindly with his
the subjects.
