SHIPP CASE NOW UP
TO SUPREME COURT
Hearing in Chattanooga Comes
to an End
ALL EVIDENCE TURNED IN
The Unprecedented Contempt Case of
Sheriff on Charges of Conspiracy
In Negro's Lynching Be
gan June 10.
Chattanooga, June 29.- With a session.
this morning lasting exactly two minutes,
the hearing of the evidence in the Shipp
case before Commissioner Maher came to
an end. All other proceedings in the case
of the sheriff and others charged with
contempt of the United States supreme
court will be held before that body
Washington. So far as evidence is concerned
, this phase of the case in itself
without a precedent, is finally closed.,
There are about 3000 pages of typewritten
evidence upon which briefs will be
prepared by the attorneys for Sheriff
Shipp. His deputies and alleged members
of the mob that lynched in this city
Ed Johnson, a federal prisoner.
The supreme court will meet in Wash
ington in October. Whether the Shipp
case will be given a regular assignment
on the docket along with other cases, or
whether it will be set for a special date,
none of the attorneys connected with the
case know. Attorney
General Sanford
stated this evening that the evidence
would be turned into the department at
Washington at once and would have nothing
more to do with it until the case is
taken up by the court.
Commissioner
Maher stated that as soon as he arrived
in Washington and turned in the testimony
his connection with the case would
end.
The hearing just closed was begun June
10, and with the exception of Saturdays
and Sundays and one other day while the
government was awaiting the arrival of
Joe Franklin from St. Louis, it has continued
without interruption.
In February there was a session of the
hearing which lasted ten days. Commissioner
Maher, Mr. Sanford and the two
court stenographers left last night for
Washington. Mr. Penland returned to
Washington.
The defendants in the case were very
much relieved that the hearing here was
closed today, and it has been a very
ing experience for those under charges try.
