alternately at Toronto and Quebec, four years termination of our noble continent, but
in each place, were debated in Assembly. An not on a continent at all, is known by the
address was voted to the Governor- General by propriate name of the Hermits. If solitude
a majority of five, in favor of removal to To- and desolution, and want, and a contemplation
of some of the sublimest features of this earth
ronto and Quebec. At a fire on Friday, the mob can render a spot fit for a hermitage, those
manifested violence towards the police -- no se- islands are very judiciously named. The
that is farthest south contains the cape itself
rious injury was done. which is marked by the ragged pyramid of
We have mentioned that Mr. Ellicott had rock already mentioned; placed there by nature
sold his' Gold' farm in Montgomery county, Md., a never tiring sentinel of the war of the
ments."
We have since ascertained that the Company
with whom he contracted have not as yet com- The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal
plied. Mr. E. has given them to the 9th of For the National Intelligencer.
June next, to comply. A large load of the ore In 1844-5 the Legislature of Maryland pass
was, we learn, taken from the farm, to be sent ed a law to provide the ways and means
to Philadelphia for examination, the company finish the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal to Cum-
not being satisfied with the partial one given it berland, and, among other provisions of
law, directed that all prior or pre- existing
by Prof. Emmons, of Albany. held by Maryland upon that work should
The Quincy Bank at Boston was robbed on waived and postponed, upon certain conditions
all of which were strictly complied with
the 22d of$ 5000. The cashier went into the Whereupon agents of that company proceeded
bank early in the morning, as is his usual cus- to open negotiations, both in this country
in Europe to raise the amount of money deemed
tom and took from the vault that amount of
agreeably
,
by the issue of bonds,
,
money and arranged it in his drawers, for the sufficient,
the law of Maryland before referred to.
purpose of facilitating business at the opening. after long, earnest, and able efforts on
He then locked the bank and proceeded to part of those agents, they utterly failed;
breakfast. When he returned he found that when, in June, 1846, at the general meeting
of the stockholders of the company.
the door had been broken open and the money at the Exchange, in the city of Baltimore
stolen.
and, after the adjournment, and whilst many
The trial of the Rev. Mr. Burroughs for man- persons representing large interests in
work yet lingered around the almost lifeless
slaughter, in causing the death of James Byard body and watched the expiring spirit of
Bishop, at Snow Hill, Md., in February last, by noble enterprise, a voice from the Old Domin
shooting him with a pistol, closed on Saturday on was heard suggesting, as a last effort
guaranty on the part of Virginia of portions
the having
with a verdict of acquittal, act prove
the canal bonds be issued agreeably to
Time,
toed
one of self- defence, or committed under rea- law of Maryland before referred to.
apprehension of great bodily harm. great touch- stone of experience and vindicator
sonable The verdict seems, it is said, to be fully sustained of meeting human of actions the waters, has of rolled the Ohio over, and and the soon Poto
