The Mob at Peoria, Illinois.
Some days ago we had an account( by
telegraph) of some disgraceful proceedings
at Peoria, a mob having attempted to hang
two prisoners who were in jail there under
sentence of death for murder. The Peoria
the ult gives the fol-
Republican
27th
of.,
,
lowing particulars of the disgraceful affair:
It is generaily known that we have two
young men confined in our county jail, under
sentence of death, for the murder of a
Mr. Hewitt, in October last. The day fixed
by the court for their execution was the
20th instant. The time given them to pretion
pare for death was felt to be short; but it
was about the limit assigned by the law,
unless for cause shown, the Court or Gov-
it Special applica
ernor might prolong.
tion being made to the Governor, that functionary
postponed the execution of the set
tence until the 15th day of January next.
Unfortunately this application was made
before the time set by the
only a few days
Court had expired, and the respite was not
known here soon enough to certify the pub
Ilie at a distance of the change.
On the evening of the 19th, the unusual
concurse of people from a distance gave token
of the anticipated event which had
their homes Dissatisfac.
called them from.
tion at the postponement of the execution
began to be manifested. People who had
left their business and come a long way to
see two men hung, were not to be deprived
of the sight with impunity. One unhappy
man had, it seems, now twice in his life
walked all night to see somebody hung, and
was a second time to fall short of his lofty
aspirations! It was too much. Such sore
bereavements in a free country were intolerable
. It was determined that, law or no
law, the hanging must come off. Menaces
to this effect did not at first create apprelivered
hension as it was thought incredible that,
, appetite for
whether to gratify a depraved appetite for
carnage, or an idle curiosity, or upon the
pretence of meeting out justice to the guilty
, men in this land would openly and wantonly
defy the law, stain their hands in human
blood, and incur the guilt of the murderer
! Hence doubtless it was that no
sufficient organization for the defence was
effected in time by the proper officers.
On the morning of the 20th, the crowds
from the country increased, and directed
their course towards the jail: soon a vast
The
throng was there concentrated. pris.
oners were demanded of the sheriff: but
there was as yet little concert of action,
and no acknowledged leader.
In the meantime, a gallows was erected
on the opposite side of the street fronting
the jail the halters prepared and fastened
to their places every thing arranged, even
to the hangman's noose, that the business
might proceed whenever the prisoners were
brought forth. There was a rope for each;
but it is said that( by way of luxury perhaps
) George was to be hanged first, and
Tom obliged to stand by and look on, that
the amiable executioners might the better
the agony which
regale themselves upon
the sight and his own impending doom
extend this de
awaken. But not to
would
tail too far, it must suffice to say, that de
the efforts of few inside and
Spite a some
outside, he door of theus to arrest pro,
ceedings, the door of the jail was burst in,
and the hall, up to the cells of the victims,
filled with the mob. Here the strength of
the cell door brought them to a halt. Beams
of timber, crow bars, stones and sledges,
did the work, however, and an entrance to
cells was effected. George
both was
caught, praying, and brought into the hall
to await the capture of Tom.
Here a slight obstacle again intervened.
Tom had concluded not to be taken. While
the mob was at work without, he had man
aged to dig a stone from the floor of his
cell, which he slid into the leg of a pair of
cast off breeches, and stood on the defensive
. But when the door was burst in, it
seems he was taken a little by surprise, and
some of the rabble entered. His adroitness,
however, and the use of his slung- shot, enabled
him to get rid of them. He then posted
himself at the door, which being low and
narrow, but one could enter at a time, and
as fast as any one attempted it, he paid the
forfeit Three or four of them were knocked
down., and the skull of one of them bro.
ken. Instruments of defence and attack
were procured, but those he managed to
capture, and used them in fortifying his position
. Some one drew a pistol and ordered
him to surrender. He bared his breast
and challenged the fellow to shoot, said
they might kill him where he was or the
Sheriff might take and hang him according
to law but he would never be dragged out
,
by a mob and hung like a dog.
This fierce determination to sell his life
dearly, and die in his tracks, had a mellow.
ing and enlightening influence upon the
dense faculties of his assailants. They
began to moderate in their zeal for justice,
and to think they were carrying matters
too far. The favorable moment was seized
by the friends of order, and a proposition,
affording a loop- hole of escape from the
ignominy of defeat, was made and accepted
. After some parley, the jail was cleared,
the gallows taken down, and the mob dis.
persed. The performance was over the
mountain had labored, the mouse was born,
and the throes of parturition ceased to be
felt. Thus ended in farce, what threatened
and was designed for tragedy. And this
result was brought about chiefly by the
skill and valor of Tom Brown, one of
prisoners. the
