Murder and Lynch Law.
Important from Rio Grande.
.
By an arrival from the Brazos Santiago, says
minds the Bee, we are in possession of Brownsville
on papers to the 28th ult. The Rio Bravo of
In- that date contains the annexed interesting and
nigh important intelligence:
suf- A party of gentlemen arrived last evening
honors from Rio Grande City, from whom we learn the
has extraordinary events which form the caption of
this article. For want of room we are obliged
re-
to give only the facts without any of the atten-
, dant circumstances and particulars.
votes, It seems that a Mr. Patten, a gentleman from
for Brazos, Texas, formerly of Missouri, started
he from Rio Grande City, for the purpose of overtaking
some stock, which was being driven into
first the interior and stopped to sleep at a noted cam-
that ping ground, called" The Wells." Here were
. encamped two Mexicans and a boy. When
Mr. P. was asleep, he was set upon an his
ac-
brains beaten out by these fellows, for the sake
of of his money and effects.
Auto- Information to this effect having been given
by the boy, a party of citizens started out in
de- pursuit, and one of the fellows was taken. After
a regular trial he was hung by the citizens,
with- of Rio Grande City, in presence of the whole
people- all concurring. Just before his exe-
to cution, he made other confessions, from which a
party started from Roma, crossed the river, and
so
returned with the other fellow who had assisted
at the murder of Mr. Patten.
After the same formalities had been extend-
put ed to him, he was also hung at that place. But
the work was not yet finished -- justice was to
posi- be administered to others, -- a party started out,
with and near the scene of the murder, charged upon
and killed six more of the villains, who have
been in the habit, for a long time, of commit-
charting similar depredations in the vicinity. We
have neither space nor inclination to comment
upon these events. Those abroad can know
nothing of ous situation and the necessity for
such acts. It is sufficient to say that the whole
people concurred in the executions.
We have yet to record another probable murder
and probably by the same gang of robbers
,
or one of its various ramifications. Mr. Thomas
H. Harris, of Roma, left Rio Grande City, for
this place, about sixteen days ago, and has not
since been heard from. There is scarcely a
doubt as to his fate.
the If things go on at this rate, not a Mexican in
a short time, will be suffered to live upon this
side of the river.
Sinee writing the above, we have seen a let-
aster
from Rio Grande City, in which it is stated,
that the murderers confessed that a party, to
, which they belonged, was organized on the oth-
co- er side of the river, for the express purpose of
murdering Americans, on this side of the river;
and that a large number of the gang are
on this side. still
