the benefit of the competency
are
the recent kidnap- lated on the programme for
unlettered. CONOMY IS WEALTH!
The excitement regarding Railroad accidents
county.
Lancaster" CONE! SAVE YOUR
proposed to be estab- is fast dying out; and we are almost ready for AMERICAN SOAP
EGO.
another Yours,& c.
and Liverpool, will. street, above Washington, are
tons. They ring the celebrated AMERICAN
thousand of the
" Ion," the Washington correspondent SOAP, in bars; Laundry and
built in the strong.
writing under date of 20th inst in barrels with a great
Baltimore Sun. SOAP,
of about two
,,
,
cost
LET and SHAVING SOAPS, which
dollars each. As
says:
organized, two stock will be the public wholesale and retail
fairly" The Metropolitan railroad These SOAPS are presented
immediate contract. taken without delay. It promises much public as the best labor saving
of Mississippi, has hic dria benefit and Orange. The railroad completion, and of its the connection Alexan- covered, and every way worthy
papers of that State, in with the Baltimore railroad is also a work of sideration. A fair trial is all
aspirants, and vast importance to this city and to the whole the work of the laundry in cold
Brown, to courteous country."
boiling pounding& c& c.
,.,
the,
Nothing will tend to promote pros
.
" more
] conflicting claims
judgment says that by if they default do the railroads perity inhabitants of this and city if of the than the question city the upon completion be the submitted proposition of these to large labor g The is amount is saved tendency required, and of fuel to of not do, these one wear the- fourth SOAPS washing and
of a subscription, to a reasonable amount, to the Clothes and remove the
17th inst of per- railroad the condi-
Orange soft,
,
made
on
hands are
stock of the
Balti- use, the
the
here with the
,
bank forgeries in on that it be connected
and a Mr. Findley more affirmative road,. they The will entire probably failure decide of the it in canal the same clear as and those white ordinarily- cost used of.
committed to pri- All orders promptly
The excitement on project, so far as the interests of this city are Premium awarded at
to have been very concerned, ought to stimulate the citizens to en- American Institute, copyright
these railroads"
courage 1851
