Outrage by a Slave in Kentucky.
A correspondent of the New York Tribune furnishes
that paper with the following account of a
most revolting outrage, that was perpetrated upon
the person of a young married lady in the vicinity
of Danville, Kentucky, about a week ago, by
a black fiend, the property of the Rev. Robert
Caldwell:
DANVILLE, Ky., Monday, July 24, 1854.
This community on last Friday, was thrown
into convulsions by the perpetration of one of the
foulest deeds that could be recorded in the annals
of crime, by a black man, the slave of the Rev.
Robert Caldwell of this county. The outrage
was committed upon the person of Mrs. Bening-
ton of the vicinity of Perryville, Bayle County.
The circumstances are: On last Friday, the 21st
of this month, the black man just mentioned went
to the house of Mr. Benington, who was not at
home, and no one at the house but Mrs. Bening-
ton. The fiend then entered the house, caught
Mrs. B., felled her, outraged her person, and then.
after threatening her life and otherwise abusing
her, was in the act of committing the offense the
second time, but was prevented by the lady calling
for her husband in such a way that caused the
negro to believe that she saw her husband coming
to her assistance. The negro sprang from
her and rushed out of the house. The woman
then attempted to make her escape, but would
have been caught again by the wretch had not
her cries been heard by some of the neighbors,
who ran to her relief. The negro, perceiving
their approach, fled, but was overtaken by those
in pursuit and was taken before a magistrate
for trial. A large crowd collected, and propositions
were made to take the negro and hang him
forthwith
. A rope was brought
for the purpose,
and preparations were being made for his immediate
execution; but at this moment the reverend
master of the slave appeared and asked the crowd
assembled not to hang him, but wait and let the
law be enforced against him, and then he would
be hung by law, and he would get the value of
his slave in money; but if they hung him without
a lawful trial, he would not get one cent for the
slave; and the crowd being chiefly slaveholders,
of course complied with the request of the reverend
gentleman. The negro was then regularly
tried, and held over for further trial, and committed
to jail for the crime of committing a rape
upon a white woman, and will be tried at the next
Boyle Circuit Court, which commences the second
Monday in August rext, when he will be convie-
ted and hanged. The lady is very respectable
and stands high in this country, and had only
been married about ten or eleven months, and
very handsome. It is thought by some she
not survive the treatment she received. will
