Lynch Law- Assassination.
Our neighbor of the Tribune, since donning
his new suit, manifests an itching for contro-
versy. He is not very select in his choice of
subjects; for he takes us to task for a short
paragraph of ours, wherein was recommended
the hanging of the guilty perpetrator of railroad
murders on the nearest tree. We allow this
is rather severe; but we know of no remedy
likely to prevail when legislation fails, but
something of the description of Lynch law.
We had an example in the commercial mart
of the new Pacific State lately, where, when
legislation practically failed to protect the citi-
zens from the midnight murderer, the people
reared the gibbet, and protected themselves.
This desperate eourse had better not be resorted
to but for the faliure of law to protect
We are no advocate for the adop-
the citizens.
tion of Lynch law. It is a bloody code of revolting
aspect; but if our citizens are to be
hurried into the other world by scores through
the recklessness or carelessness of railroad operatives
, and legislation provides no remedy,
then, we say, the people are justified in protecting
themselves by summary examples of
punishment.
But the Tribune editor is fruitful in expedients
in the extremity of the case. He says,
" at this point, when legislation has not yet
proved effectual to check the growing evil,
most anybody else would have recommended
the trial of some other enactments!" What
other power but the legislative, pray, has the
prerogative of making enactments in this country
? Do tell us what other power beyond
or behind, above or below the legislative,
" most any body else" recommends to institute
penalties for railroad murders! We suggest
that this sagacious editor should bear in mind
that he lives a country where the people
make enactments in through their legislative as-
semblies- where there is no power behind the
throne of public opinion- and that the people
will rule, either by the enactments of legislative
bodies or the verdict of primary assemblies
of the people. The last resort, Lynch law, as
it is sometimes called, is the only power existing
between the people and their servants, the
lawgivers, and, call our reasoning" strict construction
," or anything else, to the same opinion
is the Tribune editor driven by his own arguments
.
His inference, then, that if Mr. Pilsbury is
defeated, we shall probably recommend the assassination
of Mr. Crosby applies as well to
himself
as do no such thing;
to us. We shall
and if the editor of the Tribune concludes to
commit the criminal offence, he will probably
de it" by the trial of some other enactments."
We have no doubt the universal whig party in
Maine wished him in" Davy Jones's Locker,"
or most anywhere else, just previous to his accepting
his recent nomination for Governor;
but he had them by a powerful grip, and there
he holds them notwithstanding wry faces.-
Our inference, then, is, that as our neighbor
er ourself will never be likely to recommending
assassination, Gov. Crosby can only be
Bassinated by his own pocket pistol. wei as-
