without opposition.
As the instruments of speedy destruction in battle, the
; Paixhan guns and flying artilery of modern warfare,
have rendered the appeal to arms between nations in
to our times less common- so litigation, which is but a species
of individual warfare, must continue to grow less
as the chances of fraudulent delays are diminished, and
an effective administration of justice secured. The design
of all law, is to compel men to do right, and when
, an end is be attained by compulsion, the more speedily
that object is accomplished the better. Laws, dilatory
in their enforcement, placing redress to the injured
party at so distant a future as to be to him no redress, naturally
and necessarily lead to revenge and retaliation,
and the many instances of lawless violence which stand
as a blot upon the history of our country, have mostly
been the legitimate offspring of a defective civil code.
dividualte, at first law of our nature, prompt the
individual to do for himself that justice denied by the laws,
and whenever and wherever redress cannot be had
through the constituted tribunals of the country, the
people always have, and always will, erect a stand
point of their own, call it Lynch law, or what you please,
from which the banner of a prompt, but lawless protection
will be unfurled. Such a state of society, however
much to be deplored, often seems a sad necessity from
which there is no escape. The two classes the lawless
,
I have been so framed, and are so construed and carried
into operation by the courts, as to deny protection to the
. well disposed citizen, and he must either himself become
an outlaw, and submit to oppression and injustice of
every kind, or resort to the dreadful alternative of setting
up and enforcing the mandates of a tribunal of his
own. Confidence is the great principle which lays at
the foundation of the whole credit system. Destroy this,
and all is gone. When money cannot be loaned under
such legal guarantees as will secure its punctual repay.
ment, it will not be loaned at all, but rather hoarded, and
community deprived of all the benefits which would result
from its active employment. If it should be objected
that the promptness contended for might operate
with much hardship upon the debtor class, it may be replied
that the same argument, a little extended, would
take away all remedy- for, if it be hard to pay an honest
debt at the end of three to six months, it may be
equally so at the end of three or six years, or even at all.
The hardship may be a degree less onerous in the one
case than in the other, but I think the experience of
mankind justifies the assertion, that old debts are the
hardest to pay. But why spend time in idle discussion?
. The Constitution has settled the question, and if
" speedily and without delay," is not to be held an unmeaning
phrase, then all supposed hardships on the part
of the defendants, must give ray and are entitled to no
consideration whatever. The law says to him --" when
yon consented to become a debtor you knew the terms-
it was a part of your contract to abide my requirements,
and you have no more right to complain of their enforcement
, than your creditor has that he is complled to re-
sert to the way provided for redress,."
