think the rise and spread of
Know
ism first in and the worst South effect has is been to destroy a great here misfortune that Nothing- reputa. Its
been tible tion for to exempt the moral influences from steadiness the of dangerous Isms which. Heretofore made and us crazy unsuscep we excite- have
ments nicious, which from are perpetually the boiling being evolved, like per-
gases cauldron
, of
free thinking
, which in the North has degenerated into wildest
license in matters of morals, politics and religion.
Fourierism, Anti- Rentism, Millerism, Spiritualism
and the thousand other vagaries which have unsettled
the reason and shaken the moral perceptions of
Northern society, have had no foothold with us, and
we have rejoiced at our immunity, and hopefully
believed that we saw in it, the pledges of a high tone
of national character, a firmness of mind and a clearness
and solidity of judgment on which we could securely
rely for safety. The advent of Know Noth-
ingisin has sadly shaken this confidence, and the
thought will force itself on our minds, that the Abolitionists
must rejoice at it, and gather hope that
their detestable ism also. may yet in due season,
take root and expand in the soil which has proven
so congenial to Know Nothingism.
Unquestionably the South has lost cast and character
by the spread of this delusion; for delusion it
is, without a leg of reason to stand upon, without
any sanction in the proprieties of our situation to
sustain it. It is a mere wild and contagious excitement
caught sympathetically from the North, with
none of the conditions or palliations which might
feebly excuse it there. Except in a few of our cities,
foreigners have never appeared in sufficient numbers
to afford even a ripple of offense to the broad
expanse of native southern civism -- and as for the
handful of Catholics among us we have only known
them as the only religious sect, whose brethren at
the North have wholly escaped the contamination of
Abolitionism, and as the parents of numerous charities
that do credit to the religion they profess and
the age in which we live. A delusion so baseless,
must, we think, pass away, but it will leave its sting
and its scars behind- perhaps its unhealed wounds
tc torment American society for ages to come. Already
it has worked great moral evil. It has unset.
tled the general reverence for truth- it has inade
evasion, equivocation and double dealing, a necessary
practice with honorable men who would otherwise
have scorned such instruments of imposture
and self advancement.
It has at a blow struck down that spirit of manly
independence and outspoken boldness of thought
and expression which was the crowning virtue of
southern character. It has destroyed confidence
between man and man, so that we cannot talk together
even on the great subject of our common de-
fence and safety against the serpent of Abolition,
without being conscious of the chilling influence
and restraints of secret obligations. It has excited
in the minds of the ignorant the spirit of mob violence
, thus turning loose and sanctifying in such
minds the most dangerous and lawless passions.-
Witness the riots in Cincinnati and Louisville. Witness
our own city, where for three successive nights,
houses were pulled down and their inhabitants were
flying in terror for life under a volley of bullets and
imprecations. Witness the outrage against a harmless
Catholic priest on the high road, accompanied
by threats of still worse violence if he dared to undertake
again his sacred functions.
Whence come these things? We do not say that
they are the doings of Know- Nothing men, or the
instigations of Know Nothing lodges; but we do
say, that they are the effervescence of a vicious excitement
- the fruits of a poisonous seed, taking root
in vicious minds, and flourishing there with a virulent
luxuriance which are as distateful and as astounding
, we trust, to the well- ordered Know- Nothing as
to any other citizen. In Mobile, these transactions
passed without notice. No investigations were instituted
- no arrests were made -- no offers of reward
for the guilty by the legal authorities. Even the
press was dumb, or if it spoke at all, it was faintly to
deprecate the excitement of the" boys," and to intimate
that the places pulled down deserved their fate,
and the Priest" no better than he should be." Our
mouths were sealed, because we knew that our protests
would be uttered to the winds, and put to the account
of a purpose to influence the then pending election.
If the home of the humblest and the worst is not,
according to the old principle of English liberty, his
" castle," through which" the winds and rains of
heaven may enter, but the King cannot" --if it is
not as much an outrage of law to pull down a den
of infamy as the mansion of opulence and virtue, the
conclusion is that we no longer live under the dominion
of law and magistracy; but under the secret
decrees of invisible and irresponsible masters- worse
than the rule of Lynch Law, because better organized
, and invoking the watch- words of patriotism
and the sacred sanctions of religion. In such a state
of things, who is safe? Doubtless, the human demons
who went about Louisville the other day beating
, cutting and shooting every man, however employed
, who had the appearance of a foreigner, believed
they were doing right, and a service to their
cause and principles; doubtless, too, the respectable
members of the Order in Louisville deplored these
excesses. We know that order- loving Know- Nothings
in Mobile were indignant at the violence in this
city. But this only goes to verify the dangers we
are endeavoring to point out. Religious excitement
and prejudice of cast, which are comparatively harmless
in enlightened minds, become scourges and firebrands
in the hands of the ignorant and the vicious.
It is a perilous spirit to awaken in society. History
points to its seas of blood and its hecatombs of victims
in other lands and times. It is closing our eyes
to reason, and our ears to the warnings of experience
, to believe that human nature is so far changed
that it will not produce like effects in this age and
country. But enough. Our reliance is upon" time,
the great reformer," and upon that Providence who
tempers the wind to the shorn- lamb, and to whose
eye the fall of a sparrow is not.
indifferent Mobile Register.
