Andover preacher, with an endorsement of his
character by the Theological Seminary of tha
place. Now- a- days such testimony would only excite
a smile, for we know now how little such men's
statements are worth when their craft is in danger.
They clothe themselves with lies as with a garment
, and the truth is not in them.
Mr. Garrison denied in the Liberator this charge,
in behalf of Thompson and the abolitionists generally
, and for himself declared that so far from
wishing the slaves to cut their masters throats he
was opposed to violence and blood. And he proved
from the New Testament, that evil should be overcome
with good, hatred by love, and violence by nonresistance
; that all blood shed was anti- christian.
This was giving the priesthood" more than they
bargained for," and now they denouned him as a
disbeliever in christianity because he was opposed
to cutting throats!
Then noble women had felt their hearts moved
within them to sympathy for the slave. For Eliza.
beth Margaret Chandler had asked,
Shall we behold unheeding
Life's holiest feelings crushed;
While woman's heart is bleeding
Shall woman's voice be hushed?
And strong appeals for the bondman from the
tongue and pen of Lucretia Mott, and Sarah and
Angelina Grinke, and Abby Kelly, and others,
were the answer.
And now the American priesthood, as never before
, were frightened from their propriety. If
those who fashioned the silver shrines for the
goddess Diana, turned pale at the words of Saul
of Tarsus; so did the American priesthood tremble
and quake with affright at this new development
; for now, as never before, they knew that
their craft was in danger; and they broke forth in
the most terrible denunciations.
Thus for avowing the great truths of the Bible
Garrison was hated by those who professed to love
the Bible. For proving that there is no christian
Sabbath connected with the observance of one day
in seven. he was called a disl eliever in Christ.
For adopting the only doctrine peculiar to Jesus
of Nazareth, that evil is to be overcome with good
and hatred with love- he was denounced as a
reviler of the Nazarine reformer.
For declaring
with St. Paul, that in Christ Jesus there is neither
male nor female, an 1 dem in ding for both sexes the
same rights, and from both the same duties to the
slave, for doing this instead of adopting the
semi barbarous doctrine of the same apostle( who
was always half a Jew, and never so much as half
a christian) that a woman is not to speak in the
church or teach in public, they denounced Garrison
with curses and howlings, such as they will
never equal again this side of their final abode
their own fabled perdition- where there is to be
" weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth."
But the abolitionists were in earnest, and went
fearlessly forward in their work. They showed
who were the amalgamationists, who the enenies
of truth and righteousness. Those high in the
State joined in the defence of the church The
.
rabble from the streets came also to the rescue
Why not? It was an honor to be on the side of
such worthies as Wilbur Fisk, D. D. and Moses
Stuart and Dr. Lyman Beecher. Yes Dr. Beecher
the man who in 1834 drove Marius R. Robinson,
and Theodore D. Weld and nearly a hundred other
young men from Lane Seminary because they
would not close their lips and hearts on the subject
of human freedom- the man who arayed himself
against the anti- slavery movement because as
he said- or his children for him- he would not
play" second fiddle to Garrison." Second fiddle
to Garrison! where is Dr. Beecher to day? Play.
ing" second fiddle" to the hangman, and the dance
is a dance of death. Yes Lyman Beecher, his
head all hoary with sinful years, has of late again
and again appeared before the Legislature of Mas-
sachusetts to disgrace his country and his race
he could not disgrace his religion or himself- by
attempts to prevent that body from abolishing
capital punishment! IIe has stayed in the world
till now to become the ghostly ally of the hangman
, and sanctify and sustain a brutal custom of
a barbarous age. Thank heaven that he did not
join the Anti- Slavery movement in its early days
if with him should have come a spirit such as
this.
Thus while Plummer and Anderson and others
prominent in the church at the South were declaring
that if the abolitionists should go South they
would be burned at the stake, or hung as high as
Haman; and while
thern Legislatures were
offering large rewards for the head of Garrison, and
Arthur Tappan, those high in church and State at
the North with the mob to aid them, went forward
in their career of violence and persecution, and the
martyr age was begun. The first mob in Boston was
led on by" gentlemen of property and standing
in broad day light and in broad cloth." It was
directed aga inst a womens' anti- slavery meeting.
Garrison was dragged through the streets with a halter
about his body, and the mob was hungry for the
blood of G. Thompson, who by accident was absent
from the city, and thus escaped their fury. In N. Y.
City, at Utica, in Philadelphia and elsewhere over
the North a demoniac spirit prevailed. In the latter
city, Pennsylvania Hall, a beautiful building
dedicated to free discussion, was burned to ashes
by the mob, and the mayor and other leading men
looked on approvingly while the deed was done. In
the West at Cincinnati and elsewhere, the abolitionists
were at the mercy of the vilest of men, who were
invited and encouraged to attack them. The press
the Cincinnati
of Philanthropist was thrown into
the Ohio river, the colored people driven from the
city, and their friends left to the tender mercies
of the mob.
At Alton, Lovejoy fell a martyr to
the of
cause the slave And the the leading influ-
.
ences in Church and State were with the mob and
,
against the friends of freedom.
Even those in the Church who had espoused the
cause early, forsook it when the hour of trial came
Phelps, St. Clair, Cox, Fitch and Towne, joined in
the cry against the abolitionists as infidels. These
men had retained their connection with the Church,
and the whole history of the Anti- Slavery cause
is evidence that men while in the church are not
to be trusted. In a country like this even an orthodox
creed is almost a fatal barrier against Anti
Slavery. Such a creed, whether bad in itself or
not, leads men into bad company, and" evil communications
corrupt good manners" -and good
morals as well. Card playing is no sin in itself
but from its associations it leads to sin, and in
most communities is dangerous. So of an orthodox
creed is perhaps not sinful, but it necessarily
leads men into temptation, and almost necessarily
. to sin. In 1838 an attempt was made by Orthodox
abolitionists to get up an association that
would be free from the taint of Garrisonianism
and would suit the church, but it soon appeared
that to suit the Church, anti- slavery itself must be
excluded. If Hamlet was to be performed at all
the character of Hamlet must be left out. So
when in 1840, clerical influence, succeeded in effecting
a secession from the American Society and
forming a new National association from
women were excluded, the new movement which could
