From the National Anti- Slavery Standard.
THE CHARACTER OF THE NORTHERN
EMIGRATION TO KANSAS.
The presses of the slave States, of which it
may be said with striet truth that they print
and publish, either under fear of Lynch law,
or under the inspiration of its spirit, have
stigmatized our fellow- citizens, who have nobly
volunteered to pioneer freedom into Kan-
sas, as" crime- polluted and paupers." We
refer more particularly to the Richmond Enquirer
, but the calumny has gone the rounds
of the slave newspapers.
om what we know of our neighbors and
our acquaintances who have gone to Kansas,
and all that we have heard and read of others,
we feel confident that a more baseless and libellous
assertion could not be made. This
emigration is as pure as that of the Pilgrims
or the Huguenots, and more disinterested than
either.
But admitting, for argument's sake, that
the assertion were true, would it not be highly
. commendable in these men and women to
arouse themselves, in the face of brutal and
murderous threats and outrages, to this effort
for independence and a new life? What
better could they do for themselves, their
families or their country, that to start afresh
on a virgin soil, remote from painful recollections
and depressing influences? In all ages
colonization has received its greatest impulses
from the necessities, sufferings and often despair
of those who have achieved it. Even
, criminals of a deep dye, have been more rationally
employed in laying the foundation of
new States than of dangling idly in the air,
which Voltaire justly called the poorest use
, that could be made of them. They obtain in
new settlements the consolation of true demo-
cдatic equality the
encouragement of
, sympathy
, and the purifying and strengthening influences
of conscious independence. Hence
respectable communities and great States have
grown out of penal colonies, and men and
women who" left their country for their coun-
! try's good" have made a good country for
themselves.
For example, Virginia, magna mater,
magna virum, the mother of nearly every one
of those States which propagate the malicious
if libel to which we allude, and which would be
aristocratic and inhuman if it
false, was
even
the receptacle
were not
of a population trang-
, ported from the mother country as a commutation
for hanging and other terriable punishments
of
felony. It would seem if the
as
, most desperate of those felons had got the
of life, had now gathered in Missouri,
and
appointed the most
.
accomplished of their
the
, gang to Legislature of Kansas A lively
.
impression of the foregoing historical fact is
is conveyed in a passage of Defoe, author of
. Robinson Crusoe, who was nearly contemporary
with the commencement of the system of
deportation, and precisely contemporary with
that state of colonial society which he des-
- cribes:-
" We arrived at York River, in Virginia, and
coming to our plautation we were received by my
husband's mother, with all the tenderness and
affection that could be expressed. My mother
was a mighty good- natured woman, and used to
, divert me with abundance of stories about the
country and the people. She often told me that
the greatest part of the inhabitants of that
were of two sorts. First, such as were brought colony
