California News.
[ Por the Northern Light.]
The interesting news for the two weeks
ending the 20th ult., has been of the" horrible
catastrophe" sort. of
The Indians on the Columbia and Rogue
rivers are at open war with the whites, and
the struggle threatens to be serious in its
consequences. An Indian agent named Bo-
lon was murdered by the Yakumas in Wash-
ington Territory, about the 25th of Septem-
ber and then a confederation was organized
,
among various tribes for a general war upon
the whites. Maj. Haller went out from the
Dalles on the 3d of October, with 100 U. S.
troops to chastise the offenders, but he and
his force were surrounded by about 500 In-
dians, and when last heard from had been
beseiged for two days, during which time
they had had no water. The Oregonians
were hurrying to relieve the soldiers. Fur- the
ther particulars will be found published below
.
In Rogue river valley the Indians murder-
in
ed tour or five
5th of October. The miners in the valley
raised a company of 150 volunteers, marched
out against the redskins and defeated them
in a battle, killing about 40; about 30 whites the
have been killed.
Another tragic murder and Lynch- law execution
took place at Columbia, Tuolumne
county, on the 9th of September. John
Heron Smith, a young and popular miner,
went, somewhat intoxicated, into a house of
ill- fame kept by a woman named Martha.-
A tumbler was broken in the room, and Mar-
tha requested Smith to pay for it. He took
hold of her roughly, tore her dress and forced
her down into a chair. Her husband, named
John words S. with, Barclay Smith, camo, shot is him, and dead after. Barclay a few
was taken by the mob, who were at first die-
posed to trust in the care of the statutes and
the courts, but they were induced by inflam-
matory harangues to change their determin- al
ation. They held a Lynch court, and heard
the witnesses. When the jury was about to
retire, the Sheriff of the county had arrived
off
and he seized the prisoner; but, after using so
every exertion, and exposing himself to
minent danger, he was driven force.
Whether the jury found Barclay gui y, or
sentenced him to be hung, is not stated in its
the papers, but hanged he was under a large
mining flume, about twenty feet from the
ground, at midnight, in the midst of the glare
of torches and the shouts of the crowd.
of
On the 7th of October a party of China-
men, while asleep at night in their tents,
near St. Louis, Sierre county, were attacked ane
by robbers, and five of the Celestials were
slain and several others severely wounded,
The robbers took$ 1,100 in dust from the
tents.
On the 6th of October the flourishing village
at Scott's bar, on the Klamath, was destroyed
by fire causing a loss of thirty- two
, Post
ORG
thousand dollars. for
All
The returns from the various county assion
sessors show a general decrease in the valuation
of property during the last year. The
decrease amounts to fifteen or twenty per
cent. on real estate, in the busigens portious
lof San Francisco. on
