DISGRACEFL DISTURBANCE B The Bath
( Me.) Tribune, of the 12th ultimo, furnishes the following
account of the disgraceful proceedings of a
mob in that city, on Sunday, the 11th
We hoped, when we chronicled
of the Old South Church in ANDRE, de la Paroisse
never again be pained
outrage upon the sadry Suc-
, Administrateur de la Jo-
citizens, but the reu Sévérin Mattéo et
the temper of many femme, tous deux décédés
On Sunday, as the audita Paroisse avant
religious services appropriate to laying the corner
stone of a new church, a large concourse assembled
to witness the exercises, which were prevented by
rowdyism of the lowest sort, and violence.
During the forenoon a wooden cross which had
,,
been erected, was forcibly pulled down.
Early in the afternoon an American flag was raised,
amid the cheering of a considerable number of persons
, who showed themselves hostile to the exercises
and the occasion.
Mr. Russell, acting Mayor, pulled the flag down,
amid shouts of" hustle him out!" and hisses. But
on his leaving it was again put up.
A rush was made for the corner stone, which had
been previously laid, and several attempt made to
remove it from its setting, which was prevented, as
we learn, by the exertions of Marshal Walker and
Mr. Constable Leach, who kept the crowd at bay.
There was much bad talk, shouting, fighting,& c.
The Catholics, finding they would be opposed in
withdrew and left the mob
their exercises, thetly the field.
in possession of
No attempt that we hear of was made to arrest rest
any of the disturbers of the peace up to 4 o'clock.
At about 5 o'clock, the crowd, having accomplished
their objects, and prevented the religious exer-
Sening the lomper of the people, the Bishop sent
word to his parish that the exercises would not be
held.
and to privat
Some injury was done to private property, and
nuisances committed, of which it is not decent to
speak. it sail bus
We blush to think that in this city of churches,
and law and order, the Sabbath should be broken
by such seeues of lawlessness and violence. We
are mortified that a few low and irresponsible persons
should be permitted to again blacken the char-
acter of our city, and think themselves upheld by
the majority of its voters.
three things in the Peacock are very
characteristic the garb of angel, the
walk of a thief, and the voice of an a devil.
