The late loss of the Steamer Are
tie has produced a profound sensation
throughout the community here. Several
well known Cincinnatians were on
board the ill- fated vessel, and so far
as now heard from, were among the
unfortunate missing ones. The mag-
uitude of the calamity, even in this
life destroying day, seems to strike
all with amazement. A Mr. Springer
, a wealthy and influential merchant
here, is supposed to be mong the lost.
A dreadful event accurred the other
day, just across the river in the
city of Newport, opposite Cincinnatti,
in Kentucky: A little boy twelve
years of age, was returiting from school
with his companions, and in their plays
happened, in some way, to excite the
spleen of a large burly German, stand-
ind in front of a grocery. The man
took after the boys, and catching this
little fellow, threw him down, and
caught his shinney stick, and beat him
over the head, and kicked him in the
side, and stamped upon him, until he
was almost dead. The boy was taken
home immediately, but died in the evening
, in consequence of his injuries.
Several of his ribs were broken, and
likewise his collar bone, and his skull
was fractured, and the marks of the
iron nails in the heavy boot heels,
found in a half a dozen places over his
body. The brutal wretch was immediately
arrested and committed to jail.
The inhabitants of the city were áread-
fully excited, and assembled in a furious
mob and marched
, to drag the
prisoner from his confinement, and administer
Lynch law The
. police
however, and more sober citizens,
gathered together and by stronous exertions
, succeeded in quelling the disturbance
and keeping the criminal
secure. In about one week he will be
tried. There seems but little doubt
but that he will be hung. The poor
scamp has no host of influential friends
among the first families, to bring to his
assistance some John J. Crittenden,
nor wealth enough to buy up the lawyers
, and bribe the jury, as in the Ward
case, and so I suppose justice will be
permitted to take its proper course.
It will undoubtedly be an immense
pleasure to you and your host of readers
, to know that that prince of rascals
, and arch villain, Kissane, the
head contriver of the Martha Wash
ington conspiracy, and his chief competitors
have again been arrested.
Finding Cincinnatti too hot a place for
any more of his villanies, he and some
of his gang went to New York city to
ply their nefarious trade. The y
tried their hands at a forgery of some
$ 60,000, on some of the houses there,
and succeeded in getting a large amount
into thir hands. But they
seem, however, in some way to have
carried the scent of sin with them
the New York detectories and
, they
were quickly on the track. The rogues
came to this city in high glee, but our
city marshall, having been informed
of the case, scented his game, and
soon had them in limbo, where I trust
they will remain until due expiation
has been made for their many crimes.
The money market is now very
tight. Many are failing every day.
The panic in the produce market produced
by the disastrous effects of
the drouth, is beginning to give way
a little. The corn, potatotoes,& c.,
are coming in much better than predicted
, and the promise now is that
toat things in the eating line will come
down to an eatable price
Yours.. C. K.
