Lynch Law.
A correspondent of a London Journal,
gives the following account of what
appears
to have been the first case of Lynching:
James Lynch was mayor of Galway in
1473. He had made several voyages to
Spain; and on one occasion brought home
of a respectable
merchant, named Gomez Wale pynish,
the only son of the Mayor of Galway, was
engaged to a beautiful young lady of good
family and fortune. Preparatory to the
nuptials, the may or gave a splendid enter-
tainment, at which young Lynch fancied his
intended bride viewed his Spanish friend
with too much regard. He accused his beloved
Agnes of unfaithfulness to him; and
she irritated at his injustice, disdained to
deny the charge, and they parted in anger.
On the following night, while young Wal-
ter Lynch slowly passed the residence of
Agnes, he observed young Gomez to leave
the house he having been invited by her
father spend that evening
,
to
,
with him. In
the madness of jealousy, Lynch rushed on
his unsuspecting friend who fled to the solitary
quarter of the town near the shore.-
Lynch maintained the pursuit till his victim
had nearly reached the water's edge, when
he overtook them, and stabbed him to the
heart, and threw the body into the sea,
which cast it back again on the shore, where
it was recognized the following morning.
The wretched murderer surrendered himself
; and his father, being chief magistrate
of the town, entrusted with the power of
life and death, found himself obliged to condemn
his son to death. On the night pre-
ceding his execution, his mother went to
the heads of her family and prevailed on
them to attempt a rescue. The morning of
the execution an immense crowd had as-
sembled, who cried foudly for mercy to the
culprit. The mayor exhorted them to submit
to the laws; but finding them determined
on a rescue, he by a desperate victory,
overcame parental feelings, and finding that
his efforts to accomplish the ends of justice
in the usual place, and by the usual hands,
were fruitless, he became executioner himself
, and, from the windows of his own
house, launched his unfortunate son into
eternity.
His house, still exists in Lombard street,
Galway, known by the name of" Dead-
man's fane;" and over the front doorway
are to be seen a skull and cross bones exe-
cuted in black marble, with the motto-
Remember Deathe; vaniti of vaniti, and
" all is but vaniti."
