Correspondence of the Public Ledger.
Things in New York.
NEW YORK, June 3, 1851.- What, with" news
ܙܪ" awful earthquake at Valpa-
from Europe,
raiso,"" murders,"" lynch law," and" general
disorder" at the diggins, this enlightened community
has had quite a surfeit of" steamers' advices"
since I wrote you last! The yell of" Extry
Eralds,"" Extry Suns,"" Extry Expresses,"
which was set up just after the Washington arrived
last night, is still echoed in the streets, the venue
only being changed this afternoon, from Europe to
California. The large quantity of gold brought by
the Empire City makes Wall street smile, while
in other streets may be seen lots of returned Cali-
fornians, strutting along with" pockets full of
rocks."
The parties implicated in the alleged Cuba expedition
made their appearance before Judge Betts,
in the U. S. District Court, this morning. Mr.
O'Sullivan pleaded his own cause as well as any
practised lawyer could do; but a motion he made
to have the trial of the cases removed to the Circuit
Court was not allowed. Beyond arguments
on this point no further proceedings were had.
The accused are to appear again to plead on Tues-
day next.
Another brutal murder was committed last night
board the Swedish ship Thetis lying at pier 54
on,
East River. The murderer was the 2d mate of the
vessel, and his victim, Theodore Theobald, 1st
mate.' The former, in the absence of the captain,
wanted to throw up his situation, but the latter
said he should not leave the vessel till her commander
came on board. This led to an altercation,
which resulted in the second mate's splitting Theo-
bald's head open with a carpenter's axe. The
murderer has not been arrested.
The private secretary of Jenny Lind, M. Hjorst-
berg, comes out, in the afternoon newspapers, with
a card, stating that Mr. Barnum had no authority
to make the statement, published in the morning
papers, namely, that she would give no more than
a hundred concerts in America. The letter of
M'lles' secretary is quite crispy, and as such creates
considerable talk among the gossips. Quite a
windfall it will be too for those who have been
trying hard to create differences between the great
,,
cantatrice and the great manager. The inference
deducible from Jenny's letter is, that when her engagement
with Barnum is at an end, she means to
give concerts" on her own hook" here.
Maretzek's opera troupe begins a short summer
season at Astor Place this evening, and begins
with a disappointment, too, I may add. The Lucia
has all along been announced for opening night,
but this morning, in consequence of an accident to
Signor Beneventano, and the continued illness of
Signor Bettini, Lucrezia Borgia is substituted.
What's the matter?
Petitions are circulating in Brooklyn, to be presented
to Congress at its next session, praying that
that city may be made a port of entry. A series of
meetings to enforce the object in view are also to
held.
You may form some idea of the quantity of" fire
water" consumed in this city, from the fact that
during the month of May past, Mayor Kingsland
granted no fewer than 2503 licenses to tavern keepers
. And all these came but from seven out of the
nineteen wards of the city.
The number of prisoners incarcerated in the
Egyptian Tombs during the month of May was
1763, showing the enormous daily average of 57.
Total number sent to the Penitentiary during the
same time, 340; to the State Prison 10; at present
in the Tombs, 248.
Three persons were seriously injured in the
Eighth Avenue, last evening, by a mad bull that
got loose there. Two of them, ladies, not expected
recover. Every day incidents, now getting to be
to here,
