Abolitionism in our Very Midst -- Startling Events
Vengeance? Our community was
-Summary
greatly scited yesterday by the announcement that
political meeting would be held at the African
church, which would be addressed by Henry A.
Wise. The erratic course of Wise has been charitably
attributed by his friends to insanity, but
large numbers of people have for a long time looked
upon him as an enemy of our institutions, who
only sought a good opportunity in order to strike
them a deadly blow. Great curiosity was manifested
to hear him, and the church was crowded.
Many of our slaves were present. Wise's speech
was in his usual vehement style. It was professedly
in defense of the South, and an attack upon
the North, but the design of it could not be over
looked. When he spoke of the danger of Col.
Fremont's election, of the great numbers of men
in Richmond and throughout the South who were
Abolitionists in disguise, and waiting for an opportunity
to join our enemies, and when he spoke
of the military preparations which it would be
necessary to make in order to repel the North and
maintain our rights, the visages of the negroes
became lighted up with a furious joy, and in the
neighborhood of the door some turbulence began
to be manifested. It soon became clear that the
speaker's purpose was to excite discontent if not
the slaves pros-
insurrection by holding out to a
He
,
pect of release from their present condition.
was however permitted to finish his speech. An
impromptu meeting was then organized, and the
orator taken into custody. IIe immediately became
very outrageous in his language and conduct
and attempt to knock down those who were placed
to guard him. A series of resolutions were introduced
and passed by unanimous vote, declaring
his speech an incendiary one, and placing him in
the custody of twelve respectable citizens. This,
however, did not satisfy the populace, who clam-
had for his instant execution, and we regret to
say that as the committee were proceeding with
him to the jail, a rush was made, and the fellow
was taken and hanged immediately in front of the
Court House. We deeply deplore this event, but
if Lynch law is ever justifiable, it is so in this
case. It turns out that this Wise has for the last
twenty years made the agitation of the slavery
question his chief business. By means of it he
has risen to a seat in Congress and to the Govering
nor's chair. His career is now cut short, and we
hope his awful fate will be a warning to all Abo-
litionist emissaries. The developments of to- day
leave no doubt that the punishment was justly inflicted
. In Wise's house were found copies of
speeches by Seward, Samner, Wilson, Wade, and
other notorious Abolitionists, with whom he was
unquestionably in league.
We learn further that two men named Bocock
and Ilunter have been arrested on suspicion of being
engaged in similar designs. They have been
heard to express disapprobation of the hanging of
Wise, and there are other suspicious circumstances
in relation to them."- Richmond Whig.
It will not be long, if the Montgomery Advertiser's
advice is followed, before we see such arti-
eles as the above. Their publication just now in
columns is only a little premature. Let the
our southern incendiaries take warning.
