Mr. Wm. Joyce returned to his home
to find it a mass of mouldering ruins,
and with the assistance of the neighbors
instituted a vigorous investigation of
the premises, and the cause of the disas-
Suspicion at once fastened upon
ter.
several of the nagroes in the vicinity,
and on searching the premises of Mr.
Pendleton, a watch, coat, pants, and
other things the of Wm Jeyce
, property
.
were found secreted under the house
.
Bill, a slave of Mr. Pendleton, was then
arrested, and confessed that he and
three others murdered the family, plon-
dered and then fired the house. At this
revelation the greatest excitement prevailed
, and lynch law was about to be
enforced at once, but calmer judgement
over- ruled the action of the more hasty
, and the three other negroes implicated
were caught and tied to stakes to
make them confess their participation
in the bloody deed, They were Jack
and George, slaves of Hiram and Lewis
Samuels, and a boy of George Brown's
a resident of Jefferson county, and the
nearest neighbor of the Joyce family.
The others are residents of Bullit county
. The slave of Mr. Brown was arrested
late in the evening. They all
deny the murder, though suspicion, a
side from the confession of Bill, is very
strong against them. An examination
of the negroes was about to be instituted
by local magistrates, but the feelings of
the community were so highly excited
that it was deferred, and we learn that
a strong force was bringing them here
to be lodged in jail.
From the confessions of the slave of
Mr. Pendleton, it appears that the ne-
groes hearing that Wm. Joyce was absent
from home, had determined to rob
the house, under the belief to at be had
a large sum of money. They went to
the house about midnight, broke open
the door, and encountered Richard Joyce
the brother of Williams. He was brained
with a club in the his
presence of
mother and sister. The aged mother
seized a pair of tongs to rush to the de-
fence of her son, but on the instant was
attacked knocked by her the senseless negroes with, one a of club whom.
The daughter, Mrs. Welch, attempted
to escape out of the window, but was
caught by the feet, dragged back, and
then beaten to.
death The
infuriated
uffians then sacked the house, took the
little girl of Mrs. Welch, threw it upon
the bed, set fire to it and fled, the child
being actually burnt alive. The house
and contents were destroyed, and the
murderers thought their horrible crime
would not be revealed, but the discovery
the confession of a portion of one of the of property their number, and,
has brought the awful crime to light,
and terrible will be the punishment.-
The people are aroused, and vengence
dire will be visited on the heads of the
misguided wretches. The strong arm
of the law should deal with the guilty,
and it is hoped that it will prevail.
Since writing the above, we learn
that the people of the neighborhood assembled
and avowed a determination to
hang the murderers on the spot. They
were then in custody of a party of the
friends of Mr. Joyce, who started with
them to this city. On the road they
were met by a deputation of citizens of
Jefferson county, who to- gether with
several from this city, finally persuaded
them to bring them to bring them here
and let the law have its course. This
was finally acceded to and they were
lodged in jail yesterday afternoon. A
hand- axe dyed in blood was found
the possession of one of the negroes. in
