We are called upon this week to record one of
most heart- rending tragedies that ever occurred in
this State. On Thursday night, the 30th ult., Mr.
Wm. Pearce, residing about five miles from this
replace, while he was eating supper, told one of his
negro men, who had been guilty of some misdemeanor
that as soon as he was through he would
give him a flogging. Accordingly, when he got
up from the table, he went out into the' back yard
and called the fellow out of the kitchen, and told
him to come to him. Manifesting a great deal of
submission, he obeyed; but so soon as he got within
striking distance, drew an axe, and split in
twain the head of his master- scattering the
brains in every direction. We are not aware he
survived a minute. The negro instantly fled, and
up to this time( Friday noon) has not been captured
. Mr. Pearce was a good citizen, a kind husband
, father, and master, and was beloved by all
fate, has cast
a pall of gloom over our whole community. The
negro, beyond doubt, will be captured before many
hours. If he is, although we admire submission
to the course pointed out by the law of the land,
in this case so much of the brute has been manifested
, we would be glad to see our citizens rise en
mass and avail themselves of Lynch law, and
hang the rascal without court or Jury.- Madison
( Florida) Messenger.
Such is the fate which slavery procures for" good
masters." It procures it legitimately, of necessition
ty. Who will tolerate a master to inflict flogging
at his pleasure and convenience, even if he is reported
" good" by his fellow despots. Why the
fellow who advises Lynch law for this offence, and
calls the murderer a" brute" for this outburst of
indignant manhood, would himself have done the
same, or worse, had his person been assailed by
the disgraceful lasb, even without all the provocations
of being claimed and treated as a slave. He
would have done it unless slaveholding guilt has
sunk his manhood below the level of the slave.-
There are thousands in the North who will sympathize
with this slaveholder in his call for Lynch
law, because like him they look upon the slave as
a" brute," and not a man.
Let the slave be recog-
nised as a man and this will be deemed an outburst
of manliness
against insufferable
wrong.and
It is precisely because the slaveholders see this
bloody act as an exhibition of manly retribution,
and not of brute instinct, that they fear it, and
would visit it with more than ordinary severity of
punishment.
We would in no jot abate the natural horror of
so bloody a deed though it may be only justice,
instigated by outraged manhood, but we would
have it seen and known and felt, that violence and
blood is the inevitable result of slavery. That the
provocation and guilt, to a fearful extent, attach
to the slave master and his supporters and abetters
in his intolerable outrages upon human persons
and human souls. That such shocking scenes
must be multiplied and increased in horror, so
long as human beings are treated as brutes. The
true and only way to avert such horrors is not to
hang or burn the slave by Lynch law but to remove
the cause by the abolition of slavery,.
