Street
Southern Pacific, Union Pa
Rock Island railroads. sylvania railroad), Philadelphia
M., Baltimore 5:45 P.
National Educational Associa
6:55 P. M., arriving at
at Detroit
. July 8th to 12th,
N. C., 5:56 A. M., Columbia
to put in a third- day, one M., Savannah, Ga., 12:25
Such a rate was also decided
ville 3:50 P. M., St. Augustine
the annual conclave
of the
Tampa 6:30 A. M., Charlotte
Templar, to be held at Louis Atlanta 4:35 P. M. Connections
27th to 30th.
both at Miami, on the
of the Knights of Pythias Port Tampa, on the west
at San Francisco, in 1902, was West and Havana. The"
a committee of the lines tropolitan
ter Limited
" is
San Francisco. For the presi ped in every respect with
inauguration, March 4th, at Wash ing- Room- Car, Compartment
third- day, one- tare rate was Drawing Rooms and State
The same rate was made for servation- Car, through Day
of the Grand Lodge of Elks, unexcelled Pullman Dining
, in July, and similar rates For further information
for the Christian Endeavor write to all Pennsylvania
at Cincinnati, in June. or representatives of the
of the association were al Line at
. There will be no business Boston, Mass .; 1206 and
Friday New York; 30 south Third
morrow
. morning
the
sessions will be resumed, and adelphia; 207 East German
adjournment probably be Saturday more; 1434 New York
ton, or to R. E. L. Eunch
senger agent, Portsmouth
STAUNTON.
Inauguration of the
Ingram Presiding for Judge
ropolitan Limited-
Holt.
Line Railway.
, VA., January 16 .-( Spe
On Monday, the 14th
genial Judge John Henry In- board Air- Line railway
Manchester Hustings Court, new Florida and Metropolitan
to- day, occupying the bench trains. This train will
Hustings Court for Judge Henry at 10:40 P. M., arriving in
Some chancéry cases were be- 3: 50 P. M. and St. Augustine
court in which Judge Holt was It will be composed of
that he deemed it improper cars. compartment- cars,
sit, and so the Manchester library and observation
dispensed justice. Judge Ingram class day coaches will be
for several days.
between New York and
going on the bench, a few days Washington and St Augustine
Holt was general receiver of cars between New York
He renounced his receivership Va., and Hamlet, N C.,
thereto Mr. Hampton H. Fla. No extra fare will
gave bond in the sum of this train. Z.
District
Jackson Camp, Confederate R. E. L. Bunch,
tried to get Private John Al- Agent. General
