he LYNCH LAW- A YOUNG WOMAN HUNG.
A correspondent of the Journal of Commerce,
in after detailing several causes of lynching in Cal-
- ifornia, writes as follows:
Shocking however, as these cases are, both are
outdone by the extra judicial murder of a young
girl, at Downeville in the mountains of Yuba
county.
She was a Mexican senorita, with all the pas-
a sions and frailties which attach themselves to
the race. One day she stabbed a man, so that he
died in a short time. Public opinion varies as
to the enormity of this crime. Some assert that
it was a wanton and treacherous attack; others
consider it to have been an ordinary murder, under
circumstances of insufficient but considerable
provocation, while many affirm that the blow
of was struck in defence of her person against a
drunken assault. The better opinion is, as far as
I can learn, that the killing was unlawful, but
under palliating circumstances. It is of little
consequence to my present purposes to examine
into the degree of crime. I am merely to relate
how a woman was punished by unlawful hands
in this high noon of the nineteenth century.
It seems that an example was needed in Dow-
nieville. Little or no retribution had fallen upon
former murders in that vicinity, and it unfortunately
happened that the dead man had many
of friends in the city, while the girl elicited no sym-
, pathy. Her nation was despised, and she was of
a character which always draws more companions
than friends in California. The many-
headed monster cried," blood for blood."
The Mountain City is situated at the confluence
of two branches of the North Yuba, and
is connected with the opposite bank by a long
bridge. The cord was thrown over a cross- beam
in the middle of this bridge and thither the infuriated
multitude hurried their frail victim.-
Her bearing was haughty and composed in the
highest degree. She was a beautiful girl, but
neither her beauty nor unusual roundness of form
excited the slightest compassion in the majority.
At this point of the proceeding, a young lawyer
mounted the bridge- railing, and denounced
the whole affair in words of more bitter justice
than discretion. He was not suffered to speak
long. A dozen hands pulled him down, and as
many feet were as vigorously applied to him
along the whole length of the bridge. When
upon the opposite bank, he was forbidden to enter
Downieville again, and be-
under penalty o
ing tarred and feathered.
Even the perpetrators of this outrage should
have been shamed into common humanity by
the next appeal. A physician, well- known in
the place, stated upon his professional reputation-
and most sacred honor, that the girl was en cienti,
and demanded for her the reprieve which was always
granted by the merciful common law of
England, even in the darkest and most bar-
ages
barous periods But no! Mercy to a murderess
! Time
.
to give birth to another of the viper's
blood! They hooted at the idea! The physician
was ordered to leave town within three
days, for having dared to disturb the majesty of
the people arisen to assert justice.
Meanwhile the girl had been looking on with
the utmost nonchalance. At the failure of this
last appeal a scornful smile distorted her lip
,,
for herself. The manta was removed from her
head, and given to her paramour, with a watch,
purse and ornaments. Her black hair fell in
masses over her shoulders, but she calmly grasped
the noose dangling by and it
near passing
,,
around her neck, concealed the hideous knot beneath
the thick fall of hair. She made but one
request- that her hands might be left untied
and free to give the signal. Strange to say, they
did grant her one privilege, but one which, in
cases where the nerves were not made of steel,
would have been the most injudicious of all.
She then drew a bunch of cigaritas from her
bosom and distributed them the bystan-
, among
ders, reserving one for herself. This she lighted
and half smoked- then drew it from her lips,
with" I would do it again, the maldito
1
She did not finish the sentence, but dropped
eigarita. This was the signal, and her light form the.
