There ought not to be and rarely is
any danger that the criminals commit
ting the crimes for which lynching is
resorted to will escape just punishment
at the hands of the law. The only re-
quirement is that there shall be a reason
able certainty of the guilt of the party,
and even a mob engaged in lynching always
assures itself of this fact before
executing the prisoner in their hands.
Without this certainty execution either
by the mob or by the law is revolting to
any right sense of justice. If the punishment
for the crimes not now punishable
by death under the law is inadequate
it is within the competency of the Legislature
to make those punishments any
thing short of death, and I suggest that
the punishment for assault with intent
to commit rape, and for attempting to
poison be made life imprisonment in the
discretion of the
penitentiary at the
judge. The punishment for murder and
rape is already death. If it appears necessary
to provide more expeditious
trials for those crimes and for fewer
it
challenges on the part of the prisoner to
the jury in order to secure a fair trial
to the State as well as as to the prison
er, this too is within your province.
Having made the law what it ought to be
in order to secure prompt, certain and
adequate punishment for these crimes, it
appears to me that you can do no great
er service to the State than to pass such
legislation as will compel a cessation of
lynching. It is of the utmost importance
that there be an end of violence. It
has already affected our standing among
Twice since I have
our sister States.
been Governor of the State have requisitions
been delayed by the Governors of
other States because of the assertion that is
the prisoners if returned to this State
would be lynched. One of these delays
was in a Southern State and one in a
Northern State. In both cases the prisoners
were finally delivered to this State
and received a fair trial. It ought not
to be necessary for the Governor of your
State to have to accompany his requisition
with an assurance that the prisoner
will not be lynched. Our character as a
law- abiding people, determined to be sure
to punish the guilty when the guilt is
ascertained in due course of law, ought If
be
to be such as to furnish a guarantee everywhere
of a fair trial for any prisoner
for whom requisition is asked. Crime must
be punished and is punished in this State
with as much certainty as anywhere. The
crimes for which lynchings are commit
ted ought to be punished with unerring
certainty. I cannot too strongly urge
upon your Honorable Body, the duty of de
vising some means for the efficient certain
and speedy trial of crimes, and at the it
same time to make such provision as will
protect every citizen, however humble,
however, however guilty, against
trial by the vicious mob.
