to work among the negroes. The same is of A new volume in the Macmillan" Teach
ultramontanism which constructed the re Commis
when chosen as the American capital, for Midsummer nights! O midsummer By Sámuel J. Barrows, United States remembered.
true in Georgia. The News and Courier Commission. Wash- color to be R. S. Baker's ers' Professional Library" is Prof. Josiah
nights! sioner International Prison
actionary policy of Pius IX. will not re Washington had nothing but superficial illustrated paper on the wonders of the Boyce's" Outlines of Psychology."
thinks these laws are unconstitutional. ington: Government Printing Office.
turn to plague the Roman church during area. Yellowstone Park is a great feature and The Macmillan company announce" The
Nevertheless it is a fact that emigration The wood's green heart is a nest of The ablest penologists in the world ad- Professor Winchester's" Wesley's Days of Drama of the Apocalypse," by Frederic
the reign of the new pontiff to be elected animated
Doubtless the same dressed this congress,
reasons which marked
dreams, the Triumph," illustrated interestingly
agents have been arrested for trying to, des- Palmer, who presents the New Testament
penology since
in a few days. committee The lush grass thickens and springs and great advance made in
the Australian parliamentary scribes the crystallization of John Wesley's and Book of Revelation as a strongly
pointed out the way that animated our forefathers when they get negroes out of South Carolina, where Howard sought, a little over a century movement to reach the masses with the spiritual drama
sways,
Leo XIII. certainly.
of ecclesiastical opportunism, which is the chose Washington. They desire a capital there seems to be a general desire among The rathe wheat rustles, the landscape ago, to ameliorate the condition of pris- gospel, with definite dissenting organiza G. W. Dillingham company, New York,
gleams ons and prisoners. The congress arrived tion, altho Wesley himself died an Eng-
the whites for them to go. have issued" Out of Kisheneff; the Duty
way of safety and the way of present- that will be a capital and nothing else. Midsummer days! Midsummer days! at some very commendable conclusions, lish churchman himself.
day action for the Church of Rome. His They do not wish to locate the capital in The News and Courier would like to see In the stilly fields; in the stilly ways, such as preliminary periods of observation for evangelization went beyond His movement his orig- Jew of the," by American W. C. Stiles People. to the Russian
the negroes continue to leave the south All preceding the commitment of child; inal
of secret shadows
because and mystic
not only lights, program
a
Melbourne Sydney,
There is
or
attractive
intelligently.
have deal Ainslee's
an
to Magazine" to put
successor will proposes
with modern problems or lose ground. provincial and urban rivalries, but because not only because of their social ene Late lovers murmurous linger midsummer and gaze with practical theoretical trade training instruction for reform schools, illustrated paper by Mr. Gleeson in" An forth a painless system of book- review
Midsummer nights!; guardian so- English Game Park," descriptive of
one ing; are
O
at they wish to have the capital the sole dis- fficiency, but because their presence keeps under we not going to be fussy about
Cardinal Nava declared yesterday nights cieties intervent protection of the most complete
! animal
may preserves
away white immigrants. The negro prob sentence which commits in it, or give you any of the sage, bewhis
in which the state when
that the tinction of the community of the England. A very interesting account of kered
the meeting of the congregation advice that you find elsewhere."
Italian government will have to come to head- center of the Australian government lem would be a much easier one to handle There's a music of bells from the tram a child is suspended; intermeddicted to Lhasa, the" Forbidden City" of the Tiber- Well, a real" clean shave" is much bet
pling teams, which a prisoner ton is derived from
If by is to be established. The idea is that far if the negroes were evenly distributed ter.
reconciliation. drink may be sent before getting his com the courageous
the pope seeking Wild skylarks hover, the gorses blaze, journey of Ushe Narzunof,
rich ripe The agricultural department has
there, issued
reconcollation he means restoration of the away from the great cities the legislators thruout the country. It is true, and The rose as with incense plete liberty; special quarters for medical a Mongolian with kodak, who secured
in its series of" Farmers' Bulletins."
office holders can perform their is no use in denying it, that the presence treatment of condemned inebriates; inter- many views on forbidden ground. A valu-
steams
papal territory, the declaration has small and the- Midsummer days! Midsummer days! nal regime of prisons should be as se- able paper is Alice C. Fallows' account of" Scab in Sheep," by Chief Salmon of the
work better than elsewhere. of large masses of negro population in the Industry aided
last Animal
the Bureau of, by
foundation. The papacy during A soul from the honeysuckle strays, vere as possible during first commitment the campaign for pure milk in New York
valuable treatise
And the nightingale Zoologist Stiles and a
as,
the from prophet
that immigration admit
to and
discourages not
strange Aus south of
other mitigations
the
seem
may than City illustrated
It,, showing
that
.
quarter been thru much if people on Broomcorn Charles
has
century and a by
P. Hartley, As
tribulation and mainly thru countries ruled tralians should locate their capital within south from the north. Right here In heights those exacted by moral and physical hy- enter boldly and intelligently on such resistant
in Physiology, Plant- Breeding
by sons of the church. Pius VI. felt the a hundred miles of the coast, but it must Minneapolis, the white people do not like Sings to the earth of her million Mays giene. The system of indeterminate sen- form, they can get what they want. The Laboratory, etc.
Midsummer nights! O midsummer tences was found inadmissible. There were first paper of Dr. Andrew D. White's rem-
robber grasp of Napoleon I. after having be remembered that there is no reason to to live near the negroes. If a negro buys nights! interesting discussions in the extradition iniscences of his diplomatic career is in The agricultural department has issued
a lot and to interesting as are the hitherto un- a pamphlet on" Dietary Studies" in Bos
builds a house indemnity due tensely
believe that the center of population in in a certain of criminal and vic-
received a blow the eyes by
between tims of crime. Sir Walter Scott to ton, Springfield( Mass,), Philadelphia and
