MEMPHIS, Tenn., Sept. 9.- The whole
plot of the lynching of six alleged negro
incendiaries near Millington, Tenn., the
night of Aug. 31, has been laid bare, and
before many hours elapse every man
implicated in the conspiracy will be in
jail. Robert McCarver, son of J. A.
McCarver, sheriff of Shelby county, is
the man who exposed the
conspirators
. He was taken before the
grand jury last night and told the
whole story. McCarver at first refused
to testify, but when shown the alternative
of going to jail in contempt of
court or revealing the plot he chose the
latter. In his testimony before the
grand jury McCarver said that he was
invited to participate in the massacre
of the negroes by H. N. Smith, one
of the men now in the county jail,
under indictment for murder in the
first degree for complicity in the
lynching. Smith gave McCarver the
names of the men who would compose
the mob, and told him that the negroes
would be arrested by Detective W. S.
Richardson, placed in a wagon and
driven to Big Creek swamp, where the
mob would be in waiting. When the
invitation to assist in the assassination
was tendered to young McCarver, it was
then represented that his father knew
all about it, and that Judge Cooper, of
the criminal court, was not in the dark.
These representations were untrue, and
were made by Smith with the intention,
if possible, of mixing Sheriff McCarver
in the affair through his son, so that his
hands would be tied if au investigation
should be instituted by the authorities.
Young McCarver deciined to join the
mob, but the lyuching came off on time.
McCarver, the day after the iynch
ing, disclosed the details of the
plot to Joseph Thiers and Hoffman, and
through them the grand jury obtained
its first information about the conspiracy
and the Importance of McCarver's
testimony. Cox denied all knowledge
of the affair in his testimony before the
grand jury, and was indicted last night
for perjury. Criminal Court Judge
Cooper today, after hearing of McCar
ver's confession, ordered him placed
under$ 10,000 bond to insure his presence
at the trial of the lynchers, but he,
being unable to furnish bail, was
to jail. sent
