LOCAL MATTERS.
THE LAST CONFESSION OF JANE WILLIAMS.-
We heard a day or two since of a confession made
by this deceased female monster, to her spiritual
adviser, Rev Mr Ryland, wherein she stated that
she poisoned the elder child of Mr Joseph P. Wins-
ton, which died about a year since very suddenly.
There having been so many rumors current lately,
in regard to" confessions," we deemed it but just
to receive the information with caution and ascertain
the full particulars before publishing. We
regret to say that the information is but too true.
On the morning of Jane's execution, Dr Deane, Mr
Winston's family physician, received a special
note from Rev Mr Ryland. This note, by request,
has been destroyed, but it stated in substance that
ten days before the day of her death, Jane told Mr
Ryland upon his promising not to divulge the in.
afraid of lynch law- that about a year ago she administered
some poison used in killing bed bugs
to the child by way of experiment and to hasten its
end, the child being sickly. This experiment,
Jane's explanation plainly showed, was to test the
strength of the poison and its efficacy to kill the en-
family We have language to our
tire. no express
horror at this new disclosure of the fixed and planning
malice of this she- fiend, for if there is a pit of
outer darkness, in its lowest depths she will dwell.
When informed yesterday of the contents of this
letter, which we could not procure, it being destroyed
, we learned that at the time of the child's
sickness, it was taken one morning while in the
hands of Jane, violently sick and vomited profusely
. Miss Pankay, who came to the room, saw the
child throw up quite a large ball of some white
substance which Jane, under some pretext, threw
immediately into the fire. The child vomited
quantities of a white foamy substance. This char.
acter of exuded substance is unusual in cases where
ordinary poison is administered, so that the bed
bug poison must have been of a peculiar character
Not very long ago, Mr J. P. Winston lost a favorite
dog, which died suddenly in convulsions, and it is
supposed that Jane tried one of her hellish
ments on it. experi-
