LATE NEWS BY WIRE
Kentucky State Senate Passes a Most
Vigorous Measure.
INSPIRED BY RECENT LAWLESSNESS
Toll Gate Raids and Mob Lynchings
to Be Suppressed.
UNUSUAL MEANS PROVIDED
FRANKFORT, Ky., May 12.- Turnpike
raids murders from ambush and mob
lyrching in Kentucky, especially the defiant
continuation of the raiders, have
driven the legislature to desperate means.
The serate has defeated a bill passed by
the house ostensibly for stopping turnpike
raiding, but which was palpably ineffective.
Most Vigorous of Laws.
The senate then unanimously passed a
substitute, which is considered the most
vigorous law ever placed on the statute
book. It requires jailers and other office-
holding persons threatened with violence
to arm the prisoner, that he may defend
himself, and to protect the prisoner with
the aid of a posse, at the peril of forfeiting
his own office.
It makes it mandatory upon the county
judge to furnish not less than two nor
more than ten armed guards, summoned
from among the citizens, who are compelled
, under heavy penalty, to protect for
thirty days any toll gate or other public or
private property threatened by raiders, and
provides pay for guards and severe penalties
for all offenders captured.
It makes attempted raiding or destroying
property a felony and subject to a penitentiary
sentence of from one to five years. It
makes the same provision for any person or
persons who may attempt to aid, abet or
assist in the rescue of raiders. It makes
the further provision that person or persons
who really injure either person or property
shall be confined in the penitentiary not
less than five nor more than fifteen years.
No Mitigating Circumstances.
There will be no mitigating circumstances,
such as acting in sudden heat and passion,
or sought- for revenge. The persons composing
the mob shall be individually responsible
to the persons damaged for such
damages as the court may assess.
Provision is made for the county judge
to summon guards to stand at such property
as may be threatened by the mob. It
Is a penitentiary offense for persons to send
threatening letters. Governor and judges
are authorized to offer rewards for capture
of alleged raiders. The act is made an
emergency measure and will pass
delay. without
