The San Jose lynching emphasizes that what the capitalists object
to is not murder but the murder of their own; for they have themselves
been guilty of murdering unarmed workers picketing for better living
conditions.
The California landowners and politicians who approve and encourage
the lynching of kidnapers have not lifted a finger to protect strikers or to
apprehend their killers. They could not do so without arresting them
selves.
Murder and lynching are in widespread use as instruments in the
hands of property owners desperately repressing their industrial or agricultural
serfs. The murder of the Communist leader, T. E. Barlow, by
the policemen and jail officials of Tarrant County, Texas; the slaughter
of peaceful strikers in the San Joaquin Valley; the threats against the
lives of the Scottsboro boys; the bloodshed in the Pennsylvania coal fields;
the violence against the embattled farmers of the Middle West, indicate
hat capitalist law- whether it be formal law or lynch law- is directed
oward protecting the lives and property of the rich against criminals,
but also their profits against exploited workers and farmers.
Governor Rolph's call for mob violence has caught the sadistic imagInation
of other officials. Frank Walsh, Cook County, Illinois, coroner,
now says that a lynching or two in Chicago of kidnapers and murderers
" wouldn't hurt a thing." At least, he added, they" would be more effective
than some of the legal methods which have been used here."
Workers must be on their guard lest this official call to lynching be
used against them in their struggles for a better life. Too many officials
share the views of the Tulare judge who thinks that criminal syndicalism
-by definition the activities of workers to improve their conditions- is
' more serious" than m rder. By implication
mobs empowered by the
capitalist to lynch murderers may lynch those who are" worse" than
murderers.
Needless to say, even the horrors of murder and lynching will not halt
the struggles of the workers. Despite the terror, the San Joaquin
pickers won their strike. cotton
