to Hold Mass Meeting.
Higher civilization is dawning
Dr. Abram Simon and Rabbi G. Silver- world in the opinion of Booker
stone are to be two of the principal ington, who bases his
speakers at a mass meeting to be held falling off in the number
at the Ahove Sholem, 5th and I streets sons lynched during the ten
afternoon 3 o'clock.
This meeting is for the purpose of out- ing with October 31, compared
lining a campaign for a" home fund" same period of last year.
for the Hebrew Free School and the as noted by Booker Washington
Auxiliary Society to these two institu- ed to only four, but he says
tions, which is in charge of the pro- something in the way of a
Reviewing
gram, are: President, Mrs. B. Dan tion." the number
zansky; vice president, Mrs. Liebson; he says:
Mrs. Belle Weinberg, and" At the end of six months
secretary,
treasurer, M. Reichgut. ent year there had been
Mrs. *****
lynchings. At the end of ten months, woman: he was later tried
November 1, there had been forty- five jury and found not guilty.
" August 23, a half witted
lynchings a reduction of four as com
, frightening
Birmingham, Ala., for
pared with the same period in 1912 and children.
Within the past four months, August," August 25, a negro accused
and October, since I last at Greenville, Ga. A few days
September
called attention to the subject, there other negro was arrested and
An innocent man had been
have been twenty- one lynchings." August 27, a negro at
for striking an Italian merchant
Cites Typical Cases.
swept dirt on his shoes as
" It is worth while, I think, to note a ing the store.
" September 20, at Louisville
few typical cases for which human life because he frightened
negro
was taken by mob. woman in her home by his
" July 10, a negro near Blountsville, tions.
Fla., charged with being lawless and" September 25, at Marks,
accused of attempted criminal
assisting a criminal to escape.
The opinion of the mob
" July 27, a negro at Dunbar, Ga., guilt or innocence, and at a
supposed to be a burglar, charged with held later the lynching was
" September 26, at Monroe,
shooting proprietor of store.
" Also in July, two colored farmers, were for making insulting remarks
lynched near Germantown, Ky. The woman.
Commercial Appeal, stated
the leading In ten months, as
white"
newspaper in Tennessee, commenting up- five persons have been put
on the lynching, said Two apparently mob law. A reduction in the
inoffensive farm hands, real wealth pro- lynchings by four, though
ducers, were assassinated. As far as something in the way of a
any one knows, they were quiet, orderly zation."
country people. No motive was assigned
for the lynching.
" August 18, the sheriff at Spartanburg, While looking through a
S. C., in spite of the fact that dynamite rel at his warehouse in
was used, prevented a mob from lynching Miller F. Magraw found his
negro accused of assaulting a white which he lost three years
**************** This Exact
