FAILED TO LYNCH.
The doctor resumed his remarks and the
meeting adjourned to a hall near by, where the
names of about 100 citizens, whose sentiments
were known, and who, it was believed, would
join any organized effort to lynch the negroes,
were selected. Other speeches were made, and
it was determined to meet at 10 o'clock to- morrow
at the court- house. These men appeared to
be in dead, and trouble, probably
bloodshed, is looked earnest for to- morrow.
" P. B. REED, Mayor."
While the Mayor was inditing the above, the
first movement looking to an organization of
the exasperated people, who openly and on all
sides advocated lynching, was being made. In
response to a notice which had been distributed
among the thousands who rushed to the jail at
the alarm at midday, given to order the members
of the militia to report for duty, about 500
men gathered in front of Leiderkranz Hall on
Market street. The janitor refused them admission
to the hall, and the police were endeavoring
to disperse them, when Dr. Berry, a well
known physician of the city, mounted a barrel
on the sidewalk and addressed them. He
said that since the brutal crime of Patterson
and Turner none of our women and children
felt any security, and that while he generally
was opposed to mob law, there was nothing to
be done in this case but to lynch the negro
fiends. The law had again and again failed to
punish murderers. They had been sent to the
penitentia when they should have been
hung. The lawyers defended blood- stained
criminals whom they knew to be guilty. If
this crime was not atoned for, a chance would
be missed to set a terrible example to the hundreds
of idle, worthless and thieving negroes
who intested the alleys and slums of the
city. The doctor was cheered at frequent
intervals. While he was speaking,
Major Kinney, a leading criminal lawyer,
passed through the crowd. A number of the
men stopped him, and then surrounding him
demanded, in an excited manner, why he de
fended men whom he knew to be criminals.
The Major commenced to explain and expostulate
, declaring that he had never acted as attorney
for a man whom he believed to be guilty.
He was never more earnest or eloquent in his
life, and breathed a heavy sigh of relief
he slipped out of that throng. when
A Crowd of Ten Thousand Determined Citizens
of Louisville Surround the Jail,
The Spirit of Vengeance Urges Summary Pan
ishment Upon Miss Bowman's Assailants.
The Mayor Issues& Proclamation Backed Up
by a Gatling Gan.
wo Companies of Militia nder Arms
Miss Bowman at the Point of Death
-Incidents and Notes.
THE EXCITEMENT AT LOUISVILLE.
Soldiers and Policemen With a Gatling
Gun Guarding the Jail.
LOUISVILLE, Ky., April 29.- Everything is
quiet about the jail this morning, though the
talk over the town is that another and more determined
effort will be made to lynch the negro
to- night. Rumors that Miss Jennie Bowman
had died of her injuries, in circulation yester
day afternoon, tended to revive the excitement
over the outrage. Toward evening crowds be
gan to collect on the streets in the vicinity of
the jail. As night came on they increased, until
by 10 o'clock several thousand men and boys
were in the neighborhood. There was considerable
disorder, and numerous arrests were
made. Later another crowd assembled, probably
500 strong. The line of march was down
Jefferson street, and they came steadily and
silently until near the corner of Sixth and
Jefferson streets, when they were met by a line
of about 100 police, who had rushed out of the
hall where they.were stationed. As soon as the
police appeared in the front the crowd began
shouting and jeering, and came on in a determined
manner that seemed likely to force
the police aside. The latter, however, stood
firm, and for a time there was a pell- mell hand
to- hand fight, which resulted in several broken
heads and prominent arrests
The leaders were soon taken. and rushed off to
