[ New York Independent.]
THE DOCTRINE OF JUDGE LYNCH.
The Independent, in its issue of the
29th of last month, contained a short
editorial entitled" The Remedy of
Lynching." The occasion for writing
the editorial was the lynching of Nell-
ing, in Indiana, the self- confessed
murderer of Miss Ida Atkinson. The
jail in which Nelling was confined
was broken into by a lawless mob,
and he was summarily taken from the
hands of the law and then hanged
to the limb of a tree. The Independent
characterized this deed as an act of
murder, and called upon the authorities
of Indiana to use the utmost diligence
to bring the murderers to jus-
tice in the way that the law prescribes.
This" remedy for lynching" has
brought out two responses from regular
readers of the Independent, in both
of which the writers not only protest
against the remedy, but denounce lawyers
, jurors and judges because crimi-
uals who ought to be hanged so often
escape the punishment they deserve.
It is, however, necessary, in the interests
of justice, for Judge Lynch now
and then to hold his court and supplement
the regular administration of law
and thus the more effectually teach
the criminal classes that they must
not violate the law. Nelling's case is
referred to as a pertinent illustration
of this doctrine. The men who took
him from jail and hanged him by the
neck were not, in the judgment of
these correspondents, murderers, but
rather" deserve the thanks of all good
They gave Nelling just what
11
men.
his crime merited, but what he might
possibly have escaped but for their
timely and patriotic interference
This is the gist of what both of these
writers have to say on the subject.
We confess to them very frankly,
and to all others of like mind, that
we still hold the opinion already expressed
in regard to the nature of the
act, and also as to the proper remedy
for preventing the repetition of such
acts. Murder is carefully defined by
the laws of Indiana, as well as by
those of other States; and killing men
by lynching, comes, beyond all ques-
tion, within the meaning of the definition
. Such killing is deliberate and
intentional killing, and that, too,
without the authority of law, and indeed
, against its authority. The participants
in the killing are, by the
rule of law, murderers; and if the
law is right, as we believe it is, then
every one of these participants ought
to be dealt with as the law directs.
This is what we said in the editorial
referred to; and it is what we say now
Judge Lynch is simply a murderer, no
matter what may be the character of
the man he murders. He kills with-
out any authority for so doing; he
does it by design and intention; and
this is murder, whether perpetrated by
a single individual or by a mob of one
hundred and fifty persons. The fact
that a mob does the killing, and that
the man killed is himself a murderer,
does not change the character of the
action at all. The law forbids this
kind of killing, as it ought to do, and
as it must do in order to protect hn-
man society, and provides a punishment
for it; and hence the only proper
way of dealing with Judge Lynch
is to treat him as a felon, and, after
trial and conviction, hang him by the
neck till he is dead. A few examples
of this character would put an end
alike to this doctrine and the practice
of it.
Lynching, moreover, is the very
worst of all possible remedies for alleged
defects in the regular administration
of law. It is a thousand times
worse than the evil which it proposes
to correct. Let it be granted that
criminals, in the process of regular
trial, sometimes escape the punishment
which they deserve. This is undoubtedly
a fact; and yet it is far better
that they should escape than that
a mob of lynchers should take justice
into its hands and attempt maintain
law by most outrageously to violating
law. The evil in the latter case is
immensely greater than in the former,
since it for the time being displaces
and practically repeals all law except
that which the lynchers themselves
choose to establish. It is the lawless
action of a comparatively few men-
certainly far less than the whole community
- who generally disguise them
selves that they may not be recognized
, and who, without a particle of
authority, without the form of law,
without hearing evidence and without
giving any opportunity for a plea
defense, seize their victim under the of
naked law of brute force, and summarily
put him to death, and at the
same time defy and overcome all the
agencies of law that may be called
into action for his protection against
lawless violence. It is the most abominable
and horrible tyranny, because
the physical force of a mass of men,
unregulated by any law but their own
passions, is brought to bear against
the life of one man. He might
well be thrown into a den of hungry
tigers. The spectacle of Judge Lynch
executing law is not one whit above
the lowest barbarism, where men kill
each other whenever they wish to do
so, just as beasts of prey destroy the
lives of the animals on which they
feed.
Civilized society can never take
Judge Lynch into partnership with itself
as an auxiliary to the ends for
which it exists. It must get rid of
Judge Lynch; and the way to do so is
not to condone his offenses, and not to
as a
him as a felon. Let Judge Lynch understand
that when he assumes to
make and execute the law, to try
causes and hang those whom he condemns
, good citizens will not only not
applaud him, but will use their utmost
efforts to have him brought to justice
in the way the law prescribes, and
then, our word for it, Judge Lynch
will stop business. We know of no
other sufficient or safe way of dealing
with him. We know of no tyrant
more to be dreaded than this selfsame
Judge Lynch. His reign is the
ruin of law and substitution of brute
force. Whatever may be the failures
of civil society in the administration
of justice, the very worst of all fail;
ures is to let Judge Lynch
crime with impunity. commit
