Sugar Exchange, and the Stock
Exchange.
CAUSE OF THE TRAGEDY.
NEW ORLEANS, March 14.- The following is
given as a clear statement of the actuating cause
which led to the tragedy enacted this morning,
ascertained from interviews with a number of
prominent citizens, some of them active participants
in the stirring events of to- day:
On October 15, 1890, about 11 o'clock at night,
D. C. Hennessy, Chief of Police of the city of
New Orleans, going from his office to his home,
was waylaid and shot to pieces by a band of
Italian assassins, armed with such blunderbusses
as could only have been made
and for
used the
purpose of
assassination
. The indignation and excitement
were such that mob law and lynching were
about to be resorted to. The entire community
felt that in the endeavor to reach the guilty
parties, innocent Italians might be sacrificed.
To allay excitement and to assist the constituted
authorities, the mayor of the city appointed a
committee of fifty representative
citizens
take charge
to of
the investigations of
and to aid in the trial and conviction of
the assassins. This measure arrested
violence.
The committee entered upon its
work and at a mass meeting subsequently held
in front of the City Hall the actions of the committee
were ratified and they were encouraged
to continue their labors to secure the prosecution
and trial by the courts. After months of
preparations and a trial which continued three
weeks, and in which distinguished counsel assisted
the able district attorney, a jury, charged
to have been bribed and corrupted in the face
of testimony establishing their guilt, rendered a
verdict of mistrial as to three assassins, Scof
fedi, Monastrio, and Politz, and acquitted the
three assassins, Macheca, Marchesi, and Bag
netto. Three more were on trial and were acquitted
because of insufficient evidence, these
being Matranga, Incordona, and the boy
Marchesi. The acquittal
of Macheca, the
chief conspirator, and of Marchesi and Bag
netto and the mistrial as to Politz, Scoffedi,
and Monasterio fell like a thunderbolt upon
the community and impressed law- abiding
citizens with the conviction that the law had
been violated, that the verdict invited assassination
and the engrafting of the Itailian Mafia
upon American institutions. The feeling grew
strong for self preservation the people
must assume the authority which they had
delegated to the courts, and which the
courts were powerless to enforce. This
feeling increased until it found vent in the
mass meeting this morning at 10 o'clock.
This uprising of the people to secure the
punishments of the assassins who struck
down their chief of police in the night time
with premeditated assassination, was orderly
and the people dispersed quietly as soon as their
work of vindication was done
HISTORY REPEATED..
