Free.
Rev. Benjamin W. Arnett, bishop of
the Arican Methodist Episcopal church
of Ohio, addressed a large audience of
Afro- American citizens at Market hall
last evening upon the issues of the
present national campaign. The speaker
, while eloquent and patriotic in his
remarks, went little into the merits of
either of the two great parties seeking
the suffrage of the people, but declared
he intended to vote the Republican
ticket because the Republican party
had done so much for the negro, and
advised his auditors to do likewise.
The meeting was held under the auspices
of the Central Colored Republican
club, which previous to the assembling
at Market hall, marched about
the principal streets of the city, headed
by the Twin
City military band.
Bishop Arnett, accompanied by T. H.
Lyle, brought up in the rear of the procession
in a carriage.
When Bishop Arnett was introduced
he said he appeared to address the
audience in answer to the demand of
an American citizen. There was a
time when every one was called upon
to take a stand on issues relative to
government and policies, and that time.
he thought to be the present. The responsibilities
of the American citizen,
he said, were very great, and it depended
upon the intelligence with
which the people cast their ballots
whether or not the glorious advantages
and institutions of this country would
be preserved to posterity. In such an
emergency Bishop Arnett believed that
all lines should be obliterated and that
the people should stand together in the
interest of a common cause. Thus it
was that he was ready to take his
stand, he said, on the political issues
of the day beside Archbishop Ireland
and lend his effort to the success of
the Republican party. He did this not
as a churchman but as an American
citizen in full exercise of his rights.
Four or five different parties were
seeking the support of the people, said
the speaker, but the struggle was in
reality between the Republican and
Democratic parties, and as intelligent
citizens the negro must decide for himself
which party he would support.
The platform of every party except the
Republican had the negro under it, but
that party openly declared against
mob law and the lynching of negroes,
a fact which alone should commend it
to the suffrage of every Afro- Ameri-
can In fact, the speaker
declared
.
he
could not understand how a colored
man could do other than cast his vote
for the Republican party. The Democratic
party, he said, had no right to
ask for the vote of the negro. It had
disfranchised him, and ever since the
reconstruction days had been fighting
his rights as an American citizen. In
answer to a question propounded by
himself as to who was leading the
Democratic party in the present campaign
, the speaker said it was Ben Till-
man, and then denounced the latter as
a leader of mobs, anarchy and rebellion
. Bryan was the man whom Till-
man had nominated, and the speaker
wanted to know if the colored people
of St. Paul were going to vote for the
choice of such a man as Tillman. Several
voices answered with a hearty yes,
while others called forth a chorus of
negations.
Bryan was a nice young man, said
Bishop Arnett, but he did not believe
in putting the destinies of 70,000,000 of
people in the hands of a man of so little
experience. In contrast to Bryan
the Republican party had nominated
William McKinley, a man, according
to the speaker, who embodied all that
was American, in that he represented
the culture, intelligence and the wealth
of the land, and such a man should receive
the votes of the negroes. When
McKinley was elected on Nov. 3, smoke
would issue from smokeless stacks
throughout the land, and the whirling
machinery would be the music of returning
prosperity. Minnesota belonged
to the Republican phalanx, and
the colored citizens should do their
part in rolling up a Republican majority
of 25,000 in bringing about so grand
a result
. A Cook Book Free.
