sists upon a return to the scrutin d'arrondisse-
ment, or single- member constituencies, and
even hints vaguely at drastic legislation for
Boulangism. These are desperate
suppressing
remedies. What inference can a confused and
discontented country draw from them save that
the situation itself is desperate also?
If the French leaders on the Republican side
had the courage of their convictions they would
not be alarmed by the ambitious designs of
General Boulanger. As an opposition movement
Boulangism is formidable. As a Government
party, if it be placed in majority next
year, it will be an unmanageable group of
warring factions. Does the General aspire to
the Presidency? It would be the part of wisdom
to let him have it, if it comes in his way.
Louis Napoleon only became really dangerous
when his re- election to that office was blocked
by flimsy devices in defiance of the popular
will. General Boulanger would probably soon
exhaust his factitious popularity if he were
elected President or appointed Premier. With
the Senate strongly Republican, as it will remain
during the term of the next Chamber of
Deputies, neither a Boulangist President nor a
Boulangist majority in the popular Chamber
would necessarily involve the country in ruin.
The conspirators would soon fall out, and the
credulous constituencies discover that they had
been led astray by blind and quarrelsome
guides.
Instead of weakening the Senate and the
Executive office, as M. Floquet aims to do in
his revision scheme, the wiser policy would
be to strengthen both and thereby to establish
a system of checks and balances against the
popular Chamber, which next year may be
Such a
controlled by reactionary groups.
course of action would tend to reassure the
country, whereas a radical overhauling of the
Constitution and electoral system will create
confusion and distrust. Civic courage might
become infectious if the leaders were to manifest
an active faith in the Republic.
THE WHITE CAP EPIDEMIC.
There are few States in the Union from
which reports have not lately come of outrages
of one sort and another perpetrated by men who
are described as White Caps. Even New-
York shares the humiliation of having bred a
gang of scoundrels who assumed that name or
had it thrust upon them. In Ohio, crimes of
violence attributed to the same agency have
been so frequent and flagrant during the last
few weeks that Governor Foraker has been
obliged to give official consideration to the
ability of the militia to cope with the secret
organization. An amazing tale, somewhat
highly varnished perhaps, was recently telegraphed
over the country from Chicago at
the instance of a man who had succeeded in
escaping thither from the land of the Buckeyes
after confronting perils the recollection
of which made his teeth chatter. And this
picturesquely gruesome narrative seemed to
create the taste and set the standard for the
White Cap literature which is now flooding the
country. If this outburst of activity could be
accounted for only by the sudden and swift development
of a secret order having branches
in nearly every State and Territory, and tens
of thousands of zealous members sworn to obey
orders, ask no questions, hesitate at nothing
and maintain the silence of the grave, there
would be ample excuse for a general feeling
of insecurity and many local alarms. But we
have not the least idea that this is what the
existing situation really means.
That there is an active organization of miscreants
pledged to secrecy and loosely united
by a lawless spirit and a more or less flexible
code of regulations nobody pretends to doubt.
Originally it was akin in character and purpose
to the Vigilance Committees of our old
frontiers. It bore some resemblance to the
Ku Klux Klan, and may have been formed
from the more respectable relics of that infernal
order. Many of its early operations
were inspired by honest motives, and had as
good grounds for justification as lynch law
ever has. But it is the inevitable fate of such
organizations to degenerate into pure wantonness
, and, that is now the characteristic badge
of the White Caps wheresoever they are found.
But it is a mistake to suppose that they have
any necessary connection with most of the outrages
which have recently been committed, or
reported, in their name.
In the first place, it is not proved that any
such development of predatory and murderous
instincts has actually occurred, as an unreflecting
perusal of the newspapers would lead the
reader to imagine. What is called an epidemic
of some particular variety of crime- murder,
arson, theft, infidelity, suicide, breach of trust
-is often merely or chiefly an epidemic of
energy among news- gatherers; and we say this
not in condemnation or even in criticism of the
news thus collected or the men who collect it.
When an offence of peculiar character or magnitude
has fixed the attention of the country,
that fact gives an interest and importance to
other kindred offences which are inherently
less significant, and which otherwise might
have gone unreported except by the local press.
The special correspondent, like the rest of his
countrymen, has had his thoughts drawn in a
certain direction, and in describing an occur-
observation similar in
rence in his own field of
motive or incident to that which everybody is
talking about, he supplies a popular demand at
the same time that he obeys his own instincts.
In a word, he knows what constitutes" news"
at that particular moment, and acts accordingly.
In the second place, a coterie of scamps,
whether their potentiality was murder or
merely a rude joke, would be very apt, under
existing conditions, to borrow a suggestion
from the midnight activities prevailing in other
parts of the country, and, having laid out their
own piece of work, would naturally take pains
to have it attributed to the same mysterious
agency. Indeed, it would be surprising, just
at present, if evil- minded persons anywhere
should conspire to perform an act of deviltry
without assuming the familiar name and guise.
And this combination of everyday knaves, conforming
their operations to a common conception
and mould, and reporters alert to record
their doings under the prevalent classification,
is enough, in our opinion, to account for a great
part of the notoriety which the White Captions
brotherhood now enjoys.
-
RAILROAD EVILS AND REMEDIES.
How easy it is to say, as many have said,
" What we do want is Government regulation
of freight and passenger charges." That was
the very spirit in which Mr. Reagan and the
people behind him undertook the work, and the
practical result thus far, as Mr. Adams has said,
is that the business world gets less regular
tariffs, the discriminations are greater and more
injurious, the wars are more frequent and to
trade more hurtful, the stockholders get lower
dividends, and nobody seems to gain anything.
But there are still found men who, with a happy
disregard of all experience, blandly assume
that everything would go well if Government
In their
would only regulate a little more.
view the Interstate act is a failure only because
Government does not interfere enough.
European experience ought to teach the people
something. While charges in Europe are
on whole higher, and the service far less
satisfactory the, in countries where control of rail-
