SEMI- WEEKLY WORLD.
HOW TO DIE EASY.
MYSTERIES INTO WHICH THE GERRY
COMMISSION HAS BEEN INQUIRING.
How Shall We Execute Our Criminals?
The Garrote and the Guillotine- Death
by Prussic Acid- A Flash of Lightning
Is Best.
How shall we execute our criminals?
To a certain degree a distressing question
to inquire into, but in reality a most humane
investigation. Experts are divided in their
opinions upon the subject, and when experts
disagree -- why, experts disagree. Some hard
shelled experts of a very conservative frame
of mind nail their colors to the mast and hold
that Jack Ketch's hempen noose, also known
as Judge Lynch's" cravat," is the proper
thing when in the proper place.
Others of a more advanced frame of mind
suggest the garrote. The guillotine also has
its advocates, especially among the inhabitants
of sunny France, and there are those
who favor prussic acid or some other violent
poison. Gas comes in for a share of favor;
water has its disciples; but the enterprising
students of this country seem to be pooling
their issues in favor of electricity.
Not to be behind the times, an American
physician has invented a flash of lightning,
said to be almost equal to the natural article.
In this instance it all came about through
the inquiries made a year ago by Commodore
Gerry's commission, appointed to inquire
into a more humane method of executing the
death penalty.
At that time a select number of prominent
physicians were consulted and asked in the
interest of science to answer a series of questions
upon the subject of capital punishment.
Among the physicians consulted were Dr. E.
J. Kauffmann, a graduate of Berlin, Paris,
Edinburgh, Toronto and New York, and a
gentleman who has devoted much time to
the study of electricity while pursuing his
medical studies.
Dr. Kauffman was much impressed with
the barbarity of executions by hanging, and
before making his report to the commission
began work upon an electrical machine,
which was to produce a miniature flash of
lightning or continuous electric spark twelve
inches long, and calculated to produce death
lu the two- hundredth part of a second.
This may seem to be quick work, but it is
comparatively slow when we take into consideration
that the genuine article," real
lightning," produces the fatal result in the
t- thousandth part of a second at least that
is a' out Es near as it has been accurately
gauged up to this writing.
One of the first questions asked by the
commission was in regard to death by prussic
acid or any other strong poison. Taking
prussic neidas a basis, Dr. Kauffmann replied
that there was a case on record in which a
man swallowed an ounce of prussic acid and
yet only expired twelve minutes later, after
stiffering great agony. Dr. Kauffman thus
concluded that prussic acid was not quick
enough and could not be relied upon, and in
addition that prussic acid and its salts were
used in commerce, and that it would not be
advisable to teach the public a mode of death
which would be comparatively painless.
The second question referred to the garrote
and guillotine, and, according to the doctor's
replies, these systems are comparatively an-
rient and barbarous, and nations employing
them were seeking for a more humane and
scientific method of executing criminals.
The garrote, says Dr. Kauffmann, is worse
than hanging, as by its use death is only
saused by strangulation or suffocation. Suffo
ration, he also clair, is the cause of death
in the great majority of executions by hanging
, and is the great objection to the use of
the rope. In fact, if Dr. Kauffmann remembers
rightly, statistics show that over 80 per
rent. of persons hanged die from suffocation
.
One of the last questions asked the physi-
tians by the commission, said Dr. Kauff-
mann, was:
** What would you suggest as a better way
of death in criminal cases, and what would
you suggest to compensate for the difference
in effect upon the criminal cases? or words
to that effect."
Death from electricity, replied the doctor
in substance, either by shock or by a conver-
tion of the animal fluids into gases, causes
very little change in the body. Indeed, the
greater the shock the less change there is in
the body. Therefore death from an intense
shock, which would kill a man in say the
sue- hundredth part of a second, would make
30 visible change in the body. Now, as there
is an insufficiency in this country of bodies
for the purposes of scientific research, Dr.
Kauffmann suggested that the bodies of all
sxecuted criminals should be turned over to
the proper authorities for the purpose of sci-
entifle, pathological and physiological re
search.
In Dr. Kauffmann's opinion criminals
would dread such disposal of their bodies
more than death itself. Naturally it is admitted
that there are so few executions that
the bodies thus furnished would not supply
the demand, but it is claimed that bodies of
criminals killed by electricity will be in such
a good condition for scientific research that
they will prove of incalculable value to
physicians.
The miniature flash of lightning outlined
by Dr. Kauffmann could be applied to the
criminals either standing or sitting down,
and the base of the skull is suggested as the
most suitable spot, though other physicians
favor the back of the neck. It has also been
suggested that the criminal might be placed
in a room and that the air should be gradually
withdrawn, thus giving the condemned
man a painless death. This system is objected
to as being quite as painful as hanging, for
death would be caused by suffocation.
The fumes of charcoal have also been advo
eated, but are opposed on the plea that they
range with chlorine gas, one of the most
pungent gases, and accordingly charcoal
would cause a painful death. Carbonic gas
has also been talked of as a comparatively
desirable form of inflicting death, but it is
opposed on the plea that it is not quick
enough.
After reviewing all the suggestions made
there would seem to be no doubt that electricity
will be the executioner's weapon in
the future, and that, combined with delivering
the bodies of executed persons to physicians
for the purpose of scientific research, it
will strike quite as much terror into evil
doers' hearts as that well termed" relic of
barbarism," the hangman's noose.- New
York Herald
What Are Black Headed Pins?
Sitting alongside a lady in the elevated
train the other day she had occasion to
adjust a portion of her dress which was
fastened with a black pin, when the head
broke in fragments and disclosed the fact
that it was some kind of composition
fastened on a broken needle. Curiosity
led me to make some inquries, and I
found that nearly all the black headed pins
in the market are made from needles
which are broken in the factories in testing
the eyes. Any one who has handled
the black headed pins has probably noticed
their remarkable sharpness as compared
with the ordinary white pins sold in the
market. This is the explanation- that
they are old needles.- New York Tribune.
Consent Was Given.
Marshall P. Wilder tells the following
story:" During the late stormy weather
Buffalo Bill had a little gathering in his
tent of friends, among whom were a number
of cowboys. During the fun an invited
Englishman entered and said,' Aw,
beg pawdon, but- aw, may I keep my
hat on? Yes, old boy.' replied a cowboy.
you keep your boots on."- New York
Sw if
