OVER WILD BILL'S GRAVE.
Salutes Fired by Frontiersmen in Honor
of the Dead Shet's Memery.
There has been another red letter day
in the history of Deadwood. That was
the day on which Wild Bill was killed by
McCaull. Though a popular man, Bill
was a dead shot, and McCaull could not
have killed him if he had not approached
him treacherously. McCaull was imme-
diately locked up, but the excitement became
so great that a mob assembled for
the purpose of trying, convicting and
lynching him. While the proceedings
were in progress the clatter of hoofs was
heard and a man on horseback appeared
riding at full speed with his reins in his
teeth and with a rifle in one hand and an
Indian's dripping head in the other. He
had shot and killed the Indian just out
side of Deadwood, and the event was
considered of so much importance that
the crowd forgot its lynching and proceeded
to gratify its thirst for vengeance
by contemplating the gory trophy which
rolled at its feet. McCaull was afterward
taken to Yankton, where he was
hanged by the neck in a lawful manner.
Wild Bill was buried in the old cemetery
with a rude white board at his
head, but five years later some of his
friends exhumed the body and gave it
proper burial in the new cemetery on
Mount Moriah. It was reported at that
time that Wild Bill's body had turned
to stone, and a man came here not long
afterward and offered the undertaker
$ 15,000 if he would help him steal it for
purposes of exhibition. Since then there
have been many inquiries about the case,
but no one believes that the body was
petrified. Bill's new grave on the mount
ain top shows that it is the resort of
many curiosity seekers. A path is worn
across lots to it from the main wagon
road road,, and and the the white white headboard headboard has has been been
whittled away by relic hunters until it
resembles a big toothpick.
One man appears to have worked a
knot out of the board, and the ground
all about the well beaten grave is covered
with cartridge shells. There are
frontiersmen, it appears, who show their
regard for Bill's memory by standing
upon his grave and emptying their ry-
volvers into the air, throwing away their
cartridge shells as they reload. The other
day the city marshal found it necessary
to run in one of these fellows, who had
done little else for a week except shoot
his revolvers over Wild Bill's grave. The
man appeared to have a genuine regard
for the dead man's memory, and as he
submitted to arrest he expressed his
sense of the outrage in most
terms. Cor. Chicago Herald. forcible
