TELEGRAPHIC NEWS BRIEFS.
John M. Price was yesterday acquitted
at Mount Holly, N. J., of the murder of
John Bonner in September last near that
city.
Patrick D. Flanagan of Waterbury,
Conn., was yesterday convicted of murder
in the first degree for the killing of Michael
McDermott.
Ernest Morris, the naturalist, died at his
residence in Indianapolis yesterday. He
was the author of several important works
on entomology.
James Taylor, colored, was lynched at
Franklin, Tenn., for shooting policeman
Charles Cook, who attempted to arrest him
at a circus performance.
Lightning struck the Howell Lumber
Company's yard at Omaha, Neb., Wednes-
day evening. The result was the destruction
of property valued at$ 50,000.
The first sod of the tunnel between De-
troit, Mich., and Windsor, Ont., was
turned yesterday morning one mile back
of the Detroit River on the Michigan Central
line.
The strike at the Michigan car shops in
Detroit is practically over. Over 300 of
the old employes applied for work yesterday
morning, which was immediately
given them.
The Government of the Republic of
Hayti has refused to grant the request of
the United States Government for the
cession of certain territory at Mole St.
Nicholas for the establishment of a coaling
station for United States naval vessels.
Harry Parmley's store at Mahanoy
City, Pa., was burned yesterday. The
fire spread to the property of Mrs. James
Dennis, Thomas Joyce, James Curtin,
James McCabe, Mrs. M. Gobaleski and
Mrs. James Hughes. The loss is about
$ 70,000.
Jonathan Woolford shot and killed
Frank Francis near Pikesville, Ky. The
murderer's brother was engaged in a fight
with a man named Phillips. Francis,
who was a friend of Phillips, interfered
in the latter's behalf, and Woolford's
brother shot him;
Mirolius Felix Aaron( Baron von
Raven), who was arrested at Little Rock,
Ark., on suspicion of being a Hot Springs
bunco- steerer, has been identified by the
chief of police of Hot Springs. Upon the
prisoner's person was found a letter postmarked
Bremen. It was from his father
who is a prominent official in the German
army. He is unquestionably of noble
parentage.
Steamship Arrivals.
At New York- Indiana from Glasgow;
Britannia from Marseilles; Rhynland
from Antwerp.
Passed Kinsale- City of Berlin from
New York.
Southampton- Trave from New
York At; Fulda from New York,
