arrest and turned them over to
Courtney Constable James Darby, who conveyed
them to town. Wm. con-
Negroes.
fessed that he had done the killing
, and claims Dr. Courtney had
LOGICAL SEQUEL. slapped him.
IN JAIL. The weapons used were large,
rough, knotty clubs.
Rumors were rife all day Friday
parish of St.
on Friday that a lynching party was coming
upon learn- to Opelousas that night to swing
atrocious, villainous the murderers, and the sheriff to
avoid trouble, sent the prisons to
crime that ever
of a parish, a the Alexandria jail on the evening
train. We are no advocate of
have been
people had aveng- the lynch law, but we say openly that
Cheney Merry Makers" was organ- condition
ized, of which Mr. W. E. Lee, of and he returned
this city, is president, and an en- await the coming
tertainment given nightly which Captain Kenison
age, and was
proved to be a howling success.
parish, his father
To those of our city and sur- iian Kenison, a
rounding country who are desirous Young Kenison
of a place at which to spend a few schooling at Prof.
days or weeks in real genuine en- demy, in Opelousas
joyment, where the busy world of second 17 did clerk his first with
with all its cares and excitement in the New Orleans
can be forgotten and where all is trade, serving
joy and peace, we would recom- Captain Johnston
mend Bell- Cheney Springs as the book- keeper in
house of Slaughter
spot. There you will find splendid in 1860 came
fishing and hunting of squirrel and cured a position
deer, and all within a half a mile store of Rousette
of the springs. In fact, while the Soon after the
the war he enlisted
writer was there a deer was chased Louisiana Cavalry
through the main street where the and was appointed
children were at play, and it took Prescott's company
only a few moments time for a At the close
turned to the
good shot to the entire
supply
Hinckley, of
camp with squirrel. A plunge in chased the
the swimming pool before break- placed her in
fast would cause one to feel at where he
with the world. We con- years. In 1870
sider peace the place an ideal summer Taylor and
