CRIME RECORD.
LYNCHING.
A MIDNIGHT
HERMANN, MO., June 5.- The city was
thrown into a state of intense excitement
shortly after midnight this morning by
the lynching of Whitney, the murderer of
young Barcher. The mob numbered 200.
They surrounded the jail, guards being
stationed with drawn revolvers to keep
back the curious crowd which was attracted
by the noise in beating in the jail doors.
The jailer refused to surrender the keys,
when axes where brought
. Whitney
sup
posed the purpose of the assault, and
crouched in his cell floor and prayed
fervently. His voice could be heard out
side. The jailer was forced to lead the
way to Whitney's cell, which was then
forced open; a long rope the men had
brought with them was put around the
waist of the half fainting doomed man. He
fell on his knees when once in the open
air and asked leave to pray again. This
was granted, but as he continued his appeals
to heaven too long, he was jerked to
his feet and dragged through town into a
dense woods that covers the bluff, a dozen
of the lynching party warning the crowd
not to follow, and intimidating them by a
display of revolvers. It was expected the
court would hold a special session to try
the accused, but when it was announced
yesterday that the trial would go over to
the fall term, the indignation was general,
and threats of lynching were made. It
was quite an orderly mob in its behavior.
In the absence of the conventional masks.
many of the lynchers were recognized.
The last seen of Whitney he was being
taken into the wood by the lyuchers. Ere
this he is dead.
When the woods were reached the prisoner
was handed over to a dozen masked
men. He said his real named was Fisher
and not Whitney; that his parents lived in
Virginia. He did not know whether he
killed Burchard or not, as he and his partner
, whose name was Collier, fired five
shots each. He then shook hands with a
part of the mob, bidding them good bye,
after which he was strung to a tree. The
mob then dispersed. The sheriff took
charge of the body this morning, and the
coroner is now holding an inquest.
Whitney was a desperado of the James.
stripe. He and another outlaw named
Collier, after robbing several stages in
Gasconade county, on the 19th of last
month, attempted to burglarize the store
of Burchard& Lukes in the little town of
Bern during which they shot and killed
,
young Burchard, son of one of the
prietors. pro
