:
only a few days ago that I read in of which we
papers the story of a miner who lithographer
Weiber was
to the oil regions with a cart
dynamite. Going down hill the charming young
one of the social
and his horses ran away; the
ter a round
rough and the explosive tender, Coney Island,
unfortunate driver was seated on a can Mr. Weiber
O'Donovan Rossa's for British
panacea
down to
Every moment he expected to time generally
himself skipping past the moon and a mill pond; it
way to the planets Jupiter and Sa and all that
Just then the wagon ran into a tree Saturday afternoon
could almost feel his left leg on its introduced to
the equator and his head making a daughter of
the north pole. When he found fair to look upon
left by the roadside, and saw the erick went head
and wagon, or what remained of it, Weiber, happy
down hill to sure destruction. dreamed of
I have read the full details of fair stranger
Cincinnati mot feel good deal like the have to invite
that wagon, Can we have such a quently and
New York? Why not? In my
one day Mrs.
there have been a dozen. Three ping; the day
have been particularly fatal. In home the door
riot about fifty were killed and ing and exceedingly
wounded. In the riot of the 12th kicked the door
1871, where the Catholics attacked opened by her
Orangmen on Sixth avenue, about fifty sheepish.
killed and between 200 and 300 the stove, and
. In the riot of 1863 the mob held little lamb, was
of the city for three daye, and Gretchen."
were between 300 and 400, and for?" said Mrs.
wounded over 1500. Col. O'Brien of
ers." To keep
Regiment, who had been en without a blush
to restore order was seized by dignant Mrs.
and hung to a lamppost, and then house and your
and trampled to pieces by the and went to
brutes that surrounded him. she commenced
ringleaders of that riot are alive in only resulted
to- day. Later on I saw the com Weiber had
Schawb, who is now hand in glove things, but that
Most, and the incendiary ruffians the golden- haired
assemble every Sunday at Germania a very nice house
denounce American freedom, and three blocks
cry of anarchy and murder. Well, was up and she
same Schawb lead on a lot of ago she landed
like himself hatchet in hand to
, two She
,
years.
the police, but by the time Mr. to her rival and
got through with his attack he arrest for
like a bad advertisement for a man.
And she
closs slaughter house The police that she will
the life out of Herr Schwab, and company with
to carry him off on a shutte Mr. Weiber is not
has contented himself from that
It has been a
this with advising others to sail inket. Lambs
it. He lets out the job of active numerous.
to fellows who wish for novel seems likely to
. Yankee clubs have knocked Yours
good horse sense into his thick head
ever had before; but if there was a Being sugar-
success Mr. Schwab and his kind though mild and
ough and searching
it again. And the knowledge of disorders of the
have done, and what they can do, to by eminent
men, and many
me feel like that man on the wagon.
population is not far from a million Besides nitrogen
quarter; perhaps rather more than tains in smaller
out of this there is a body amount- ammonia and
20,000 which is recognized as a crim- substances which
; that is, men and woman living vegetation.
the pale of the law- 20 regiments observatory on
solidly together by the indissoluble feet above sea
tion of carbonic
crime The loot of this city- two
.
millions of dollars. Where is vary perceptibly
prize in the country, or on the en- hitherto been
continent, like it. It is true we have is as completely
police, but they have been in many as carbonic acid
recruited from the class they are called sorbing these
. Our better reliance is in a well sea is believed
militia- no mere holiday soldiers. their supply,
is very certain, and that is, there the air remarkably
throughout the
blank cartridges If there is
no. a
hope Herr Most, Justice Schwab and ties withdrawn
Rossa will all be there, and af- be incessantly
first round or two, we would have posed that the
assurance of peace for six months at duced by electric
these reformers would have a the chemical
to try their hands at reforming nitrogen, and
Happy Hunting Grounds. fact that no
Ottendoffer, of the Staats Zeitung have been found
to get an injunction to keep the the heights
Brooklyn bridge from putting their
Hall's Vegetable
switch in front of his office He preparation
new
.
with; its success
New York will not be benefitted by a hair to its
connection with our young sister gray growth, and
are acting very badly in the city
. You recollect that Flatbush,
Brooklyn, was recently thrown
convulsion by the marriage of a boy
jumped over broomstick. But
revelation of domestic infelicity is
remarkable than that. One
December a couple of young
women, belonging to very respect
, started out for a walk. They
through Greenwood cemetary, and
up in a saloon, where these
young people drank whiskey
11 o'clock at night. They all
and the girls porposod, so say
that they get married. They
a minister, who for two
dollars was willing to get out of
NAT
near midnight and marry two PRESS
ASS
. It is one of the most shock
that has occurred in that city Gen. Charles
day, that a man calling himself
minister, for such a miserable More Familiary
should blast the prospects of four
for life. It is almost a pity Over in the Soudan
whipping- post is abolished; if ever White Nile, this
case where strict and impartial threatened with
amend it it is on the back of cial agent of the
minister.
Christian eral Gordon was
of a notorious womon by a on a mission of
her house in the most fashion ance to the Soudanese
of the town is the fitting close after his arrival in
life. It almost reads like a ance of two remarkable
A few years ago this adventuress claring that the
York as the mistress of a Wall be protected and
; cast off by him, she was lowed, it seemed
to secure as a husband one of eral Gordon, with
reputable men on the street. with the diplomacy
a flirtation with a notorious would prove a
opera, and ran away with him army and cause of
Mhadi. But a reaction
there she plunged into all ex the situation is of
French capital and in a few acter for the personal
,
ran through a fortune of Gordon. Even while
the news may be
At last her lover cast her off, nent that Khartoum
him. Still her good forture brave" Chinese
General Gordon
her, for she was never prose the late Lieut. Gen.
account of the scandal it would After receiving a
which many porminent men
; but it is useless to follow mean war with great
ited China and by
life. Altogether she must judicious support
quarter of a million of dollars, in the Taiping
of her class, she dies miser- honor and credit
Chinese government
known as Chinese
retribution took place last week, tion now grew world
dive of Egypt Ismail
,
still lack the final chapter. Aeral Gordon to his
by the name of Frederick mous slave trade
creasing power. After
married two years ago to a very the White Nile, in
young woman, and the wedding he had partly
social events of the season. Af and returned to
Khedive, Tewfik
of festivity, which took in disposed to him.
, Long Branch and Saratoga, complications induced
and his young wife settled send General Gordon
a conciliator His
housekeeping and having good
.
a
ty to his government
. Everything was smooth as 54 years of age
it was" love among the roses,"
sort of thing, till one unhappy A PLEA FOR
afternoon, when Fredrick's father The pride and
to his son a golden haired contained in the
Germany. In truth she was nearly every circumstance
upon, and at first sight Fred life. Its most original
head over heels in love; but Mrs. in self love or
happy in her young love, never generally in the
danger, but kept inviting the is the pride of family
to her house. She did not a state pride, a
her twice, for she came fre- pare each year with
sometimes oftener. At last proudly boast its
Weiber had been out shop- cade is compared
was cold, and when she got with century. This
door was locked; she was shiver- peculiarly a
uncomfortable, so she we see that is boasting not
uncomfortable, so she we see that is not
door violently, and at last it was ority of the present
husband, who looked very point with pride to
Inside, comfortably sented by the world's material
looking as innocent as a
across the Mississippi
was her faithless friend; Miss
as a wonder of
What did you lock that door phone and phonograph
Mrs. Weiber, blowing her fing- ocean cable are the
keep out the cat," said Weiber, American discoveries
." Well,
sir," said the in- magnetism
use the
Weiber," you can keep your were but idle theories
your cat," and out she bounced us. But the grandest
her mother's. Straightway tions of truth is
investigating, which not much eulogy as the
in the discovery that Mr. stanced above. Of
been doing very naughty of this nineteenth
that he had actually married will most thank us
haired Teuton, and was keeping public schools which
house with her not more than for the first time
away. Mrs. Weiber's blood generalness to the
she went for him, and a week But it is true in
him in State's prison for electricity and
She then turned her attention
boast of having
and got out a warrant for her principles known
knowingly marrying a married telligent historian
she swears by the great hookey that produce events
send her to Sing- Sing to keep who establish new
her recreant husband. Mrs. It is the fashion to
a safe woman to deal with.
ness of the Puritans
a bad week in the stock mar seventeenth and
are scarce, but bears are when the unwritten
The weather is excrable, and can people shall
to continue.
who seeks the causes
truly, BROADBRIM.
then will our
ence come to be
are suited to every
coated, they are easy to take. and with their churches
and pleasant in action, are thorthe Puritan settlers
searching in effect. Their efficacy in all
the stomach and bowels is certified the school- house.
physicians prominent clergy who, after religion
of our best citizens.
of education. To
nitrogen and oxygen, the air con indebted for the
proportion of carbonic acid, school idea. The
certain nitrous compounds is due the honor of
which are very important to free- school principle
Late researches at the French applied the
on the Pic du Midi, about 9500 the year 1642. principle In
