A REMINISCENCE
of the
Lincoln.
Assassination
Abraham of
The Manager of Ford's Opera House
Gives His Recollections of the
Terrible Affair- An
Experience. Odd
Washington Star.]
A Star reporter finding himself cosily seated
in the office at Ford's opera house, and Harry
Ford in a vein of reminiscence, led Mr. Ford's
mind a score of to the at
tending the assassination of President Lincoln
at the Tenth Street theatre. The day of the
assassination," said Mr. Ford, about 12 m.,
Booth came down Tenth street to the theatre
and stopped there to read a letter. I can re
member very well seeing him sitting on the
steps outside. I told him then that President
Lincoln and Gen. Grant were coming to the
theatre that night. I said that President
Lincoln and Gen. Grant would occupy one
box, and added, as a joke to tease him,
Jeff Davis and Gen. Lee would be in another that
box. He denounced Gen. Lee very vigorously
for having surrendered the sword
Virginia. That evening, after the perform of
ance began, he came to the theatre, and as
he passed the box- office he looked into the
window and, putting his
arm through,
placed a cigar which he had partly smoked
on a shelf inside and said in a mock heroic
style:
Whoe'er this cigar dares displace
Must meet Wilkes Booth face to face,
" Then he passed into the theatre."
" Did he ever return for the cigar?" asked
The Star reporter.
" No. Those were the last words I ever
heard him speak. He must have said them
to mislead us, for his plans, it seems, were
and it was part of the plan, as
I heard afterwards, that Payne was to assassinate
Seward, Atzerott should kill Johnson
at the Kirkwood house, and Booth shoot the
president So knew
what he was going to do, and how much time
he had.
" Later in the evening," continued Mr.
Ford," we heard a pistol shot in the theatre.
Joe Sessford and I were in the treasurer's
office. We thought at first that it was the
pistol fired by Asa Trenchard in the play
Laura Keene was Our American
Cousin, but then it struck us' as a little too
little opened a evening We. the early in
window that looked into the theatre and saw
Booth crouching on the stage with a knife in
his hand. Even then we could not tell what
happened, and that seemed to know.
We thought at first one had insulted
Booth and he had pursued the mar
across the stage. A few minutes, which
seemed an hour, passed before the whole terrible
truth was known."
" You were among those who were arrested
were you not asked The Star re
porter.
" I was arrested, I on the Sunday
following the assassination, and taken down
to the Carroll prison, fronting upon the
capitol grounds. I was treasurer of the
theatre, and my brother, James R. Ford, better
known as Dick' Ford, was manager. My
brother, John T. Ford, who owned the theatre
, was arrested at his home in Baltimore
after his return from Richmond. He had
run down there to our uncle, mother's
only brother, William see Greaner. Nearly
every one around here professionally related
to Booth was arrested, and the Virginia and
Maryland farmers along the river, who
supposed to have assisted Booth in his escape were
in any way, by harboring him, given him
food or shelter, or boats, were arrested, and
they were all sent to prison where I was. So
we had plenty of company.
" Did I enjoy it? Well, I would not have
missed the experience for a great deal. It
Was a rare mixture- deserters, bounty
jumpers and prisoners of state, governors,
legislators and men of every station. Still it
was rather rough the first week. We were
kept in close and solitary confinement.
Each man had a room by himself and was
not allowed to leave it or to see any one. I
remember that when my brother was brought
in I saw him in the yard. The guards would
not let me go to bim or speak to him. After
John T. was arrested his family came
from Baltimore. His wife applied to Secre over
tary Stanton for a pass to go to the prison
and see him, and Stanton refused. There we
were left alone in our dungeons in dreadful
uncertainty. I remember the day of the
funeral ceremonies at the capitol. I could
see nothing, but could hear the solemn booming
of guns, the dismal beating of muffled
drums, playing dead marches, and the
steady tramp feet. hat was not very
cheering music for our ears. We did not
know but the people in their excitement
would mob the prison and lynch us, for some
of the men arrested had been stoned in the
street. Our fare coarse prison food-
soup and beans and was dry bread."
