a perfect match to it, both hitched to a
sleigh bearing Santa Claus surrounded by
a wilderness of toys.- But this isn't what
we started out to say. Last Monday Mr.
Butler met with another curiosity in the
upper end of the county, in the form of a
perfectly white coon, with pink nose, eyes
and toes. The little fellow was trapped by
farmer living there, an Mr. Butler learned
of it by accident and secured it.
-Go and see the several articles of beauty
and usefulness that are offered as prizes
in a raffle soon to take place at the drug
store of Mr. Paul G. Scuuu. Tickets are$ 1
each and are selling rapidly. Only one
hundred and sixty are to be sold and each
,
ticket will have six chances for a prize.
The drawing will take place as soon as the
ticket is sold.
1t
last
-A dispatch has been received from
Paris announcing that Bartholdi's statue of
" Liberty Enlightening the World" has been
entirely finished. But sca: cely enough
money has been raised in New York so far
to pay for the foundation of the pedestal
in Bedloe's Island, on which the statue is
to be placed. In all it will require$ 250,
000 to complete the pedestal, of which not
over one- fourth has been raised.
-Last evening the report was circulated
that the new Tenth street sewer was leaking
. A little pond of yellowish water that
had gathered in the bottom opposite the
custom house, and a stream pouring out of
the sewer at that point, was the cause of
the report. But a personal examination of
the sewer outlet by the mayor and Com-
,
missioner Baird, proved that not a drop of
water was coming in through it. The presence
of the water is easily explained in this
way: A neat little rain fell Sunday and
Monday after the sewers had been closed;
the bottom referred to is the lowest place
in the city; water naturally seeks the lowest
Place and will get there if there is any way
to do it that does not involve too much
climbing; and as the sewers afford direct
communication between this lowest place
and other parts of the city, the rain- water
naturally and easily finds is way through
them into the said lowest place. The
deep yellow color of the water is also easily
accounted for and may be traced directly
to the newly- gravelled streets, which shed
ufficient quantities of clay to discolor the
whole city full of water.
-Postmaster Murphy was at work yesterday
upon his quarterly report to the department
at Washington, and he found that
the reduced rate of postage had made but
very little difference in the receipts of the
office during this first quarter. He believes
that, at the end of the year, if not sooner,
the receipts purely from local business will
be as much as they were before the reduc
tisn was made and, perhaps more; and then
it will not be long before we may demand
a free delivery system, even it congress
makes no change in the postal law, reduc
the amount of receipts necessary to en
title a community to such a system. The
reason why the reduction in postage has
had so little effect upon the receipts of the
office here is that there has been an increase
in the demand for stamps of the larger
denomination. Business men who do
much of their advertising with circulars
know, from their own experience, perhaps,
the tendency of the recipient of an unsealed
letter with a one- cent stamp, to toss it
promptly into the waste basket without
even glancing at the contents. Whereas
a sealed letter is always torn open and its
contents examined. The use of one- cent
envelopes, unsealed, 18, therefore, decreasing
, while that of two- cent sealed envelopes
increases in proportion; hence the result in
respect to receipts as stated above.
-The lynching of four negroes in Yazoo
City, Mississippi, on Saturday night as a
measure of retribution for the death of
three white men, turns the eyes of the
country on that unfortunate state. The
question involves something deeper than
the mere politics of the day- it is a question
of race, especially perplexing in such
states as Mississippi, Louisiana and South
Carolina, where the negroes are most numerous
and most ignorant. Their antagonism
to the whites dates from the days of" reconstruction
," and is directly traceable to the
methods employed to bring it about. In
the states long dominated by carpet- baggers
and adventitious citizens, of whom
the turbid Tourgee stands for a specimen,
a condition of things exists which can be
found no where else in the south. Negroes
and whites watch each other with mutual
distrust and mutual fear. Being the most
ignorant, and the least capable of self- control
, the negro is generally the aggressor.
His lawlessness frequently provokes lawlessness
; murder is meted out to avenge
murder, and the fire is stirred with the
sword. In such states as these, where the
negro population is very large, the only
hope for averting bloodshed in the struggle
for supremacy between the two races,
is the education of the negro through successive
generations until he acquires what
he does not now possess- sufficient intelligence
to discern his best interests and to
maintain his rights by the aid of his
son rather than his passions. rea
