45 to 60 Persons Were Injured in
Race Rioting- Negro Lynched
and White Man Killed- Heroic
Mayor Is Improving.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 29.- Major Gen. Leonard Wood, commanding
the Central Department, with headquarters at Chicago, has been directed
by Secretary Baker to proceed to Omaha, Neb., where Federal
troops were sent last night to quell a race riot.
Mr. Baker communicated with Gen. Wood after he had received a
message from the Governor of Nebraska asking for Federal aid. The
troops were ordered from Fort Omaha by Gen. Wood, the Secretary said.
OMAHA, Neb., Sept. 29.- Martial law was declared in Omaha to
day. Sixteen hundred soldiers from Fori Crook and Fort Omaha
patrolled the streets. Machine guns were mounted in the vicinity,
of the Court House and in the negro district. Mobs had dispersed
and the situation appeared under control of the soldiers.
Major Gen. Leonard Wood to- day telegraphed that he would arrive
to- morrow to take personal charge. He said he had ordered additional
troops from Camp Grant, Illinois, and Camp Funston, Kansas, to entrain
at once for Omaha.
There were several street fights to- day between negroes and
whites. Officials feared that these encounters would develop into race
riots on a large scale to- night.
A captured German cannon presented to the city by the War Department
was used by the mob to batter down the Court House door.
County Commissioners estimated the damage to the building at from
$ 100,000 to$ 250,000.
After the soldiers had begun restoring order in the city, many
police officers stripped themselves of their insignia of authority and
resigned forthwith, Most of the policemen who quit were men who
had come into the service during the present administration
Quiet came to Omalm. after a night
of mob rule, during which a negro
was lynched, an attempt made to hang
the Mayor, Edward P. Smith of
Omaha; the$ 1,500,000 county court
house was set on fire, one man shot
and killed and from 45 to 60 others
injured. The white man killed is
believed to have been Clarence
Clancy.
The Mayor is at a hospital as a
result of the attempt made by the
mob to hang him to a trolley pole
because he advised against the lynching
of William Brown, a negro, who
was in the county jail charged with
attacking a white girl on the outskirts
of the city early last week.
The condition of the Mayor was re
ported to be slightly improved to- day.
The Mayor, who suffered from cuts
fractured bones, recovered con
and sciousness at noon.
