HORRIBLE DEED.
Laconia, N. H., the Scene of
One of the Most Brutal Murders
Ever Committed.
Three Persons Killed and the
House Set on Fire.
The Murderer Captured and
Safely Housed in Jail.
LACONIA, N. H., Nov. 25.
Shortly after 5 o'clock this morning, the
inhabitants of this place were awakened by
the ringing of bells and the cry of fire. Upon
investigation it was found there was not only
a fire, but that a most brutal and fiendish murder
had been committed, and as a result three
persons met death and another, a devoted
wife and mother, lay at the point of death.
James Ruddy, with a wife and child, of
Irish descent, resided about half a mile from
the postoffice in the northeast part of the village
. Ruudy was a respectable man about
44 years of age, and employed for a long
time in the Laconia Car Works. His wife is
about 36 years old, and their only child one
and one- half years. They had lived in the
village many years.
Thos. Samon, an acquaintance, aged 36, a
cook by trade, had been employed at the
Flume House, White Mountains, during the
summer, and previous to this at the Pemig
wasset House, Plymouth. He is a married
man but has not lived with his wife at times,
who now resides in Plymouth. He is an
Englishman. He has of late indulged in
strong drink frequeutly. He was seen roam
streets with a woman. Satur
ing about the
he noticed by neighbor
day morning was a
taking down a clothes line in the yard of the
house where he occupied the upper tenement,
John Ford and wife occupying the lower
part. was noticed that his hands trembled
It the work, and attracted considerable
attention.
It appears that he left his home with a
trunk at 11 o'clock Saturdry forenoon,
wheeling it toward Lake Village on a wheel
barrow down Lake street and up Winter
street, a distance of nearly a mile. Finally,
he stopped at Ruddy's house, leaving the
trunk in frout, where it remained two hours,
and was afterward taken to a room he had
previously engaged for the purpose of board
oning for a short time. The trunk was carried
into the house with considerable effort by
Samon. Ruddy returned home at the usual
time. Everything was quiet till an early
hour this morning, yet lights were frequently
seen by neighbors during the night.
Shortly after 4 o'clock this morning S S.
Andrews, who resided near, alarmed by the
screams of a woman, aroused his son, O.
L. Andrews, quickly dressed and hurried in
the direction of the screaming woman and
found her lying on the ground, under the
front window, through which she had made a
desperate leap. Mrs. Ruddy was bleeding
profusely. Upon being asked what was the
trouble said:" Pick me up. I am cut to
pieces." He assisted her to the residence of
Charles Filgate, directly opposite, and she
was soon unconscious. He then telephoned
for Chief Officer Judkins and a physician,
and waiting a short time for their arrival,
they went to the back door and burst it in.
As they did so the flames burst out, showing
that the house was on fire. An alarm was
sounded, but the fire was extinguished be
fore the department arrived. Gaining en
trance the officers found lying upon the
kitchen floor the bodies of Ruddy and the
child, both cut in a horrible manner and
Icovered with a bed which had been saturated
with oil and set on fire, both bodies being
disfigured by the flames nearly past recognition
. Near by in the bed room was the
trunk above mentioned, and also the body of
a woman recognized to be that of Mrs. Ford,
who was identified by her husband who soon
arrived. He remarked that it was his trunk
and wheelbarrow, but requested that it remained
quiet. Bed clothes had been placed
on the body and saturated with oil. The
can was found nearly empty, and an attempt
had been made to burn it. An examination
revealed that one leg had been chopped off
and the limbs bound to the body with a
clothes line. The particulars were gleaned
from Mrs. Ruddy, who said that the crime
was committed by Samon with a hatchet,
which has been found in the river. They
immediately commenced work on the case
and men were sent in every direction to cap,
ture Samon.
Coroner D. A. Ambrose of Merideth, arrived
and held an inquest about noon, until
which time nothing was removed from the
house An immense
. throng
of people from
Laconia and adjoining towns visited the
scene during the day. Mrs. Ruddy's life being
uncertain her deposition was taken, which
subsequently was as follows: All went to
bed about 9 o'clock. At 11 o'clock Samon
came into the front room, went to the win
dow, pulled the curtain one side and
looked out. He said he was
nervous and
could not sleep. She got up and made him
a cup of tea and went back to bed. At 4
o'clock Samon came into the front room
again, looked out the window and went back
into the kitchen. My husband and I got up.
He went into the kitchen also. I soon heard
a fall, and going out found my husband hanging
over a chair with his arms down. Samon
started for me and struck at me with a
hatchet, striking me on the head. I grabbed
his arm, but he struck me and threw me
on
the floor. He then went into the front room
and killed the baby. The baby was crying
quite loud. While he was there I tried to
unlock the door, but he was back and struck
me on the head again, knocking me down. I
laid perfectly quiet. He then went back into
the front room, got the baby and had come
back pouring feathers and straw over us and
going out. I got up and went to the front
window, tried to get it up but could not.
I
then broke a pane of glass and jumped
through. He was very nervous, walking in
the kitchen nearly all night. I did not know
but the trunk was all right.
The coroner's inquest was that the persons
came to their death by the hands of Thomas
Samon. Where she jumped through the
front window and outside were spattered
with bood. Suspicion being against Ford,
husband of the murdered woman, that he
might be implicated in the affair, he was arrested
early this morning and still remains
in custody. He shows evidence of guilt. He
called
at neighbor's house
last
and
evening, leaving the
family
bible,
remarking that his wife had
gone away with another man, and wished
that they should keep the bible till called for,
and if his wife should come and attempt to
sell the household goods to immediately let
him know.
Mrs. Ruddy's injuries consisted of a cut
nearly severing the left wrist, cutting off the
finger and ugly wounds upon the face, neck and
back. At Ford's and Samon's there was
no evidence of the murder of Mrs. Ford, yet
it is thought that her death was accidental at
the hands of Samon, and that wishing to conceal
the body he took it down stairs in a
trunk and thence to Ruddy's and thinking,
perhaps, that he could carry it from the
house during the night. Ruddy refused to
aid him. When the struggle commenced at
five o'clock in the morning another tenant of
the Ford and Samon house heard
and afterwards loud words which soon rapping sub- 1
sided. Friday Mrs. Ford informed her husband
that he need not return from Lake Village
that night, a request which he seemed
ready to comply with. The supposition is
that Mrs. Ford died from strangulation or
being drugged, as she frequently indulged in
strong drink. The murderer was captured
at two o'clock this afternoon a short distance
from Plymouth village on the main road
from Laconia, about 30 miles from the scene
of the murder. He was passed by a team occupied
by Manson Brown of Plymouth, who,
upon going to the telegraph office, learned of
the affair with a description of the villian,
when it occured to him that he had passed
such a person and going back took Samon into
custody. Upon notifying Sheriff Story he
was ordered to place him in the hands of the
Plymout officers, where he will remain till
Monday and then taken to Laconia for
trial. Great excitement prevails and fears
are entertained that a vigilence committee
will be organized and upon the arrival of the
murder be lynched. Later reports from Ply-
mouth etate that Samon denies anything
about the tragedy and is surprised at his
arrest, yet there is not the least doubt of his
guilt.
A reward of$ 300 was offered by the select
men for Samon's arrest. At 7 o'clock this
evening, Samon was eating supper with his
wife at Little's Hotel in Plymouth, apparently
unconcerned. Many are of the opinion that
he will be brought down during the night,
but the sheriff claims he will not.
Great crowds are anxiously awaiting his
return. Ford is at present under bonds to
keep the peace for shooting at some boys a
year ago, and is generally called rather a
hard character. Samon has never been regarded
as vicious, even when drunk. Mrs.
Ford was formerly the widow of Wm. Scales,
who died some years ago leaving her in comfortable
An axe was found in the sink in Ford's
house, but no traces of blood. A hatchet
was also fouud in Ruddy's house, but the one
used by Samon was found in the river on the
way to Plymouth.
At 8 o'clock Samon was reported to be in
bed asleep under the guard of two men.
Ford is in the station house here, and is
somewhat excited Mrs. Ruddy remains
comfortable..
