Shocking Murder and Lynch Law in West V
Virginia.
A MAN KILLS THREE PERSONS FOR TALKING
ABOUT HIS FAMILY- HE IS SEIZED
BY MOB AND HUNG- LETTER TO HIS
WIFE A.
& C.
& C.,& C.,
John Wallace near Wheeling, W. Va.,
his
had come to believe that the wife of
brother George had been talking about"
him. He went to his brother's house and
told his wife that she must go to Miss
Church's, as that lady was sick .. He asked
for a hammer and she gave it to him.
Wallace and his brother's wife and her little
child started to Church's, and as Mrs.
Wallace was climbing the fence he struck
twice with the hammer on the head, which
killed her. He then picked up the child,
which was crying, and struck it against a
stone. Death immediately followed. He
then went back and told Miss Church to
get him something to eat, and as she star-
out he struck her several times with
caused death. He
the hammer, which
then went home and slept over night, and
gave the alarm next morning in order to
screen himself. He stated that his brother
and wife had been talking about him,
and his wife and he had determined to
kill the woman His reason for killing
Miss Church is that he was afraid she
would find out what he had done. All this
he confessed after he was arrested on suspicion
and confined in Black's Hotel preparatory
to being committed to jail. He
spent Saturday night praying and crying.
About 2 o'clock in the morning twenty- five
men broke into the hotel. They approached
the first guard and demanded admittance.
He refused and they drew their pistols and
fired several shots in the air, and the man
ran off. Entering the front door noisily
they began knocking off the lamp chimneys
with their pistol barrels, and as the
wind was blowing strong the lamps were
soon extinguished and the place was in
utter darkness. The mob then began
firing in the ceiling and shouting as if
they were so many devils. They fired
about in such a reckless manner that several
of their party were slightly wounded.
uproar he began
Wallace
prayard the
When
sobbing and
his room opened and the first of the lynchers
made his appearance he sprang behinb
one of the guards and screamed," My God
don't kill; save me, save me.! The mod
laughed at his cries, and after knocking the
guard down and trampling on him, they
threw Wallace on his back and began to
tie his arms. Again he screamed in agony
as great drops of perspiration rolled down
his face:" Don't murder, don't kill me!
For God's sake give me time to pray.
I want to see a minister." One of the
men yelled," You murderer. Miss Church
wants to see you, and by -- she shall!"
After placing the rope firmly about his
neck they dragged him down stairs headforemost
, and out of the house on to the
railroad track, where he uttered the most
horrible cries cursing praying and beg
,,
ging them to let him go. They paid no attention
to him, but began running with
him as if he were a log or barrel. They
took places one behind the other and presently
began to run. Wallace did not stop
calling until he had been dragged nearly a
quarter of a mile. He vainly tried to regain
his feet and stand up, but whenever
he did so the mob would pull the rope
suddenly and jerk him on his back. After
going nearly a mile below Littleton they
stopped and hung the body to a tree. It
is supposed, of course, that Wallace was
dead by this time. At six o'clock he was
found dangling from a limb of an apple
tree, alongside of the railroad, his feet
the early passenger trains on the Balti-
mo e and Ouio passed the place there was
great commotion among those on board,
and the trains slackened their speed in order
to give the people a chance to look at
the lynchers' work. When the body was
examined, the spine and neck were found
to be broken, and the body horribly
mangled and bruised. A coroner's July
was at once summoned and they returned
,
verdict to the effect that he came to his
a death by hanging at the hands of unknown
persons.
The following letter was found in his
pocket, written to his wife:-
" Mrs. Mary Wallace, from a husband
to a wife- 1 will probably never see you
again. I am a prisoner and expect to be
hung for the murder of those who I confessed
to have killed. Dear Mary, I can't
tell the reason I did it, only through the
hatred I had against George for the way
he talked about you when we were stay-.
ing at his house, and what they said about
you after we went back to your father's.
I am sorry to say that I was persuaded by
Henry Villars, more or less, and was drink-
I was committed to jail for
ing some.
further examination. Dear wife, I would
like to see you, but cannot see you unless
you get well and come to see me. Darling
if you can come and see me, come. Write
me a line or two and send to me right
away. If I live to get to jail I will write
to you and tell you all I have to say.
Write soon. From your husband,
JOHN WALLACE.
" P. S.- I will trust in God to save my
soul. Good bye, dear wife, good- bye. You
once loved your husband, and I hope will
never forget me. Let God be your comforter
. God forbid that any shall do as
have done." I
