A Mob at Oxford, Ohio.
1Cincinnati Gazette.]
A special dispatch in the Gazette of Sep-
tember 2 announced the lynching of a negro$
named Garnett, Jail,
for an outrage upon Mrs. Kingery, a white
woman living near College Corner, the
shooting of the culprit and his rescue single
handed by Village Marshal Kyler. On the
morning of September 3, the mob was in
by a who went to
the calaboose where the prisoner was con-
,
fined, battered down the doors, pressed in
and shot the shrinking, frightened prisoner
in his cell. Four shots were fired, each one
of which lodged in some vital part of the
brain or body, and he died almost instantly.
The body was then brought outside and left
on the street for about an hour, when it
was taken back to jail by the Marshal, who
summoned Coroner Spencer at Hamilton.
A jury was impaneled, an inquest held,
and a verdict returned that the deceased
came to his death from the effects of a pistol
shot from the hands of a mob, to the jurors
unknown. The body was afterward taken
possession of by colored people, and sent to
the home of the deceased, near College
Corner.
A peculiar feature of the character of the
mob was the fact that it was led by first- class
farmers, nearly all of whom are friends of
the injured woman. Notwithstanding the
terrible character of the affair, the sympathies
of the whole community appear to
be with the mob. The demonstration was
confined class, when notorious
rough named Jim Hand attented
to lead the crowd he found no followers.
After the shooting on Sunday, and the
failure to kill, the mob became dissatisfied.
The doctor who examined Garnett reported
a slight wound to the left of the spinal column
, which would not necessaryily prove fatal
. The failure to kill aroused the crowd
to a further and successful effort. The
trouble, too, in fastening the crime upon
Garnett He
prove that he was at the depot at the time
the rape was committed, but this was clearly
disproved, and their action appeared
them the only legitimate outcome of their to
