LYNCH LAW IN PRINCE GEORGE'S.- Early
on Monday morning a party of masked men
broke open the jail at Upper Marlborough,
Prince George's county, Md., and took from
his cell Michael Green, colored, whom they
hanged to a tree near the town for assault
,
ing Miss Alice Sweeney. The crime was one
of peculiar atrocity and the details are too
revolting for publication. The young lady
lived some miles north of Marlborough, and
week going to the
on Monday of last upon
spring, about two hundred yards from the
house the waylaid her and despite her
, negro,
appeals for mercy and struggles to escape brutally
outraged her Miss Sweeney is a beautiful
.
girl of nineteen, of high social standing and a
belle of the neighborhood. She is engaged to
be married, and the wedding was to have taken
place in the approaching autumn. She
was left unconscious by her assailant, but at
length she made her way to her home.
Green was arrested the following day and
Miss Sweeney positively identified him. He
had a narrow escape from lynching at the
time, but was lodged in jail. After midnight
Sunday night the jailer was aroused by a
band of masked men, who demanded admission
, but he refused, and without speaking a
word, with sledge hammers and crow bars
they forced their way into the corridor. The
cell door was quickly burst open and Green
was found crouching on the floor dumb with
terror. He was heavily manacled, but one
of the lynchers, who appeared to be a black
smith, advanced from the crowd, and with
hammer and cold chisel soon freed him from
his shackles. A rope was thrown around
his neck, and he was hurried out of the jail
to a grove near the town. Before being
drawn up to the tree he confessed the out-
His body was allowed to hang until
rage.
six o'clock Monday morning, when the authorities
held an inquest, the verdict being,
" Found hanged by parties unknown."
The lynchers were evidently of the best
classes and their action seems to have met
with the unqualified approval of the entire
community, white and colored. Green's
body was removed to jail, but his friends refused
to take charge it and it was buried
in the jail yard. of
