RIOT AT CENTREVILLE.- Threatened
Lynch Law. We learn that they have had
quite a serious disturbance this week in the
usually quiet town of Centreville, Md. It
will be remembered that on the 9th of Sep
tember last Mr. Wm. H. Porter was brutally
murdered on the highway in that county
, and that David Seeney, a slave of Mr.
Charles McAllister, was soon after arrested,
charged with the perpetration of the deed.
A week or two ago he was tried before the
circuit court of Queen Anne's county, and
from the evidence elicited the opinion pretty
generally prevailed that he would be convicted
of murder in the first degree. To
the great surprise, however, of those who
looked for such a verdict, the jury found
him guilty only of murder in the second degree
, thus sending him to the penitentiary
instead of the gallows. The jury of course
did not escape immediate censure from the
disappointed, nor was the public feeling in
relation to the murder permitted to calm
down. On the contrary, the indignation
was increased, and the whole county aroused
by threats of personal violence to the prison-
er on the one side, and by a determination
to uphold the laws on the other. On Tues-
day the threatening storm broke forth. On
that day a mob of about one hundred persons
, from different sections of the county,
assembled in Centreville, and declaring their
intention to lynch the prisoner, proceeded to
the jail and commenced an attack upon the
building for the purpose of forcing an en
trance. Mr. Duhamel the sheriff, had fortunately
promptly summoned a posse of citizens
, to defend the jail and prisoner, and
to maintain the public peace, but on their
interfering the mob turned and attack
upon
ed them, and quite severe and protracted
battle ensued. Brickbats, clubs,& c., were
freely used, and the mob finally dispersed-
not, however, until Mr. Price, and a man
named Godman, of the Sheriff's party, and
several others, on both sides, had been injured
. Mr. Price was struck in the side
and severely injured. Mr. Godman was injured
in the mouth also with a brick. The
Sheriff deserves much credit for his energy
on the occasion. It is to be hoped he may
succeed in the arrest and punishment of all
connected with the outrage, as no matter
how erroneous the jury may have acted, or
how guilty the prisoner may be, a mob
should not and must not be tolerated in a
land like ours governed by law.-
more Sun. Balti-
