Judge Lynch in Missouri.
FAYETTE, Mo., Jan. 22.- Allie Thix
ton, a mulatto boy, about 20 years of age.
was brought to Fayette Sunday night by
Constable Miller, of Glasgow, and lodged
in jail on a charge of highway robbery.
Thixton and another negro were charged
with assaulting a highly respected young
white lady near the scene of this last exploit
, some eighteen months ago. His
accomplice was arrested, tried and sent to
the penitentiary, but Thixton escaped,
and since then has kept away, until a few
days ago, when he again appeared on
the scene in the role of
a highwayman
. On Friday evening Miss Crews
was driving along the public road, accompanied
by a litt'e colored girl, when suddenly
she was assaulted by a man, who
robbed her of her pocketbook and at-
atemptedato drag her from the buggy.
She screamed and made such a brave and
determined resistance that the villain fled.
Suspicion pointed to Thixton and he was
arrested and carried before lady for
identification, but she failed to recognize
him, though the little girl said he was the
right party, and other circum- tances fastened
the guilt upon him without the
shadow of a doubt. He was committed
to jail, and a preliminary trial was to have
been given him at 2 o'clock today.
This morning a company of twenty five
or thirty mounted and masked men,
heavily armed, rode quietly into town and
proceeded at once to the fail, while a halt
dozen went to Sheriff Crigler's room at
the Butler house and procured the keys.
The prisoner was taken a half a mile north
of town on the Glassgow road and suspended
from the limb of an elm tree.
Deputy Sheriff U. J. Hughes and Mayor
Deathrige followed on foot and tried to
prevent the mob from lynching
the
wretch, but they were ordered back at
points of a dozen revolvers and were unable
to prevent the determined men from
carrying out their intention. After he
had hung a few minutes the mob rode
away as quietly as they came, in the direction
of Glassgow. As soon as they de
parted Mr. Hughes cut the corpse down
and used every effort in his power to re
store him to life, but his neck was broken
by the fall. Sheriff Crigler failed to
recognize of the mob on account of
their complete any disguise.
