Evidence Dissected
SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 12.- Commenting
on the evidence adduced at the Balti
more inquiry, the Bulletin this afternoon
says: It is very different from the color
less report of Procurator Crispi of Valpa
raiso. It is the story of one of the most
wanton, revengetul and cowardly outrages
found anywhere in modern history. A
large part of the town cannaille, police,
soldiers and sailors precipitated them
selves on unarmed sailors of the United
States, stabbed, shot, beat, maimed and
ill- treated them in every manner that a
mob could invent.
The notion of a sailors' row, with some
more than ordinary aggravating incidents,
has to be wholly laid aside. The Valpa
raiso uprising was one of the most shocking
affairs that has taken place anywhere.
The Post says the testimony shows that
the attack was premeditated and that the
police aided the mob to kill and wound
our men, instead of protecting them as
has been claimed. This puts a more seri-
ous aspect on the affair. It is
beyond a doubt that it is well known in
Valparaiso that the attack was to be
made on the sailors of the Baltimore. It
is also known that among the assailants
I were Valparaiso policemen and Chilean
soldiers in uniform. Such being the facts
of the case, it is clear that the United
States cannot be satisfied with a simple
apology, accompanied by expressions of
regret. There must be the fullest and
most complete reparation, with indemnity
for the men who were wounded and
families of those who were killed. the
Race War Again.
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., Jan. 12.- A M₁
copany, Fla .. special to the Telegram
A serious riot occurred last night
says:
between the whites and blacks, crowds of
whom had gathered in public to witness a
tight rope performance. A negro named
Henry Hinson used insulting language in
W. Jeffer
the presence of white ladies.
son Chitty, a prominent young white man,
ordered him away. Hinson shot Chitty,
killing him instantly. A free fight followed
, in which John Jones, a negro and
a friend of Hinson, was killed. In the
confusion Hinson escaped, but Marshal
organized a posse and captured him at
midnight. He was brought back and
placed in jail, but early this morning a
mob took him out and hanged him to
tree. a
