ery of a trial" has been unavailing, and that
the Chivalry who have him in charge have
even added theft to the other indecencies of
the Court room, whereby Brown is deprived
of the means of procuring witnesses. In all with
matters pertaining to slavery and slave prop- py
erty the code of Judge Lynch is the common
law of Virginia, and its operation in the pres
the
ent case is deferred a few days, merely to give
sary
time for the Holy Inquisition- consisting of
to
Mason. Faulkner, Boteler, Vallandigham, the
big dog of the New York Herald, and the lit-
ile dog of the New York Times- to torture or
manufacture testimony out of the prisoners to' s
the damage of their political opponents. As
soon as this mine is worked dry, we may look our
for the execution of Brown and his misguided rich
fellows- unless the political influence of Gov.
the
Willard, of Indiana, shall save his brother- in-
mal
law, Cook, from the doom which would otherwise
be in store for him.
Granted, that Brown has been guilty of a
capital offence. Granted, that he- is- not, as an
those who know him best aver, a stark madman
, fit food for lunatic asylums. Granted
the
that a fair trial would send him to a murderer's
death. What is to be gained by crowding the
old man to the gallows in advance of such
means of defense as are allowed in civilized
communities to horse thieves and midnight as-
it
sassins? What end is to be served by steal-
ing his money and cutting off his means of
procuring witnesses and counsel? Is it possible
that no bloodshed can be traced to the
door of John Brown individually, if the whole
of
history of the transaction be brought before
the jury? Is it possible that the old man.
lunatic though he be, has not made himself
liable to the death penalty, if his crime is construed
by the strict letter of the law and the
evidence?' If the functionaries who have
Brown in charge do not wish the country to
in
believe that important facts mitigating his of
fence are kept out of sight- that important
testimony vindicating his personal conduct at
Harper's Ferry is suppressed- that he is sacri-"
Aced to judicial malice rather than to violated
law- let them look to it that the barbarian haste
with which he is being hurried to a verdict
of guilty is corrected. It is not impossible that
Brown kept his own skirts clear of blood.
It is not impossible that his worst crime was
that of manslaughter, or some offence only
punishable by imprisonment. We do not hazard
the opinion that such is the fact, but we
Bay that the public mind will assuredly drift to
that conclusion, if the unseemly haste
which Brown is being driven to the gibbet with
persevered in to the end were
great public peril incurred by a few
The
delay in the finding of a verdict, we
Garden
wineral
see a necessity in the course which is
Middle
pursued. If there wero any remote dan-
[
that the ends of justice would be unsatisfied,
might acknowledge the fitness of bringing On
man into court with his sabre cuts and inches
storm
bayonet thrusts all fresh himself so weak as
of
be unable to stand. upright- but even in
Valley
contingency we could not admit the right-
so serious
fulness of robbing him of the means of procur-
ters
testimony which he deemed essential to
bright
defence, and hurrying him to his fate with ing of
a trial ... be all
under
THE NORTH.
CONCILIATING I
