LYNCHING PARTY
SUPPOSED MURDERER OF THE
SMITH FAMILY WAS STRUNG
UP YESTERDAY.
1
BEREAVED HUSBAND URGED PATIENCE
11
Said He Was Not Quite Satisfied of
the Guilt of the Accused Negro.
The Mob Could Not Be Re
strained.
-
Brookhaven, Miss., Dec. 11.- Additional
details of the murder of Mrs. Brown
Smith and her four children in Lawrence
county, 24 miles east of this place, on
last Wednesday and the subsequent
lynching of the supposed murderer were
received today.
After capturing Charley Lewis, the
alleged murderer, the mob placed him
alongside of several other negroes and
asked the little girl, who was spared by
the murderer, to pick out the one who
killed her mother. She at once pointed
to Charley Lewis. This strong evidence
to the mob made it difficult for Sheriff
Cazell of Monticello to induce the people
to turn Lewis over to him for safe keeping
. He assured them he would have the
negro at Bankston Ferry yesterday
morning at 10 o'clock for trial. As
promised he arrived there on time with
Lewis, and another mob of 200 men,
armed with shotguns and winchesters,
met him on the east bank of the river.
Speeches were made by cool- headed men,
among them being Hon. A. E. Weathers
by, senator from Lawrence county, and
Rev. Drummonds, a Methodist preacher,
who plead eloquently for the negro's life.
Mr. Brown Smith, the man whose
family was murdered and who should, of
course, have felt the most aggrieved,
jumped on the water shelf of the little
store gallery and pleaded with the crowd
to be patient and not to rush hastily into
a thing they might regret. He said that
while he did not doubt his child's word,
yet she was so young that there was a
possibility that she might have been
mistaken. He said there was something
in there( pointing to his left breast) which
did not the
matter. The words of Smith did more to
quiet the mob than anything, but about
that time rain commenced to pour down
in torrents and those who could, together
with the prisoner, sought shelter inside
the store. As soon as the rain stopped an
attempt was made to hold court, but this
was soon found to be impossible.
After parleying for some time the moi
under the leadership of a few determined
men, made a rush for the negro and succeeded
in getting him from the deputies
after a hard struggle.
They then put a plow line around the
negro's neck and run up the hill with
him. He was put on a big black horse
and driven under a tree, and after the
halter was fastened to a limb the horse
was driven from under him. His feet
touched, but he was strangling and Mr.
Arrington, one of the lawyers, and an
other man cut him down. He could not
speak. The crowd allowed him to be
revived and then hung him in earnest.
His body was left hanging by the road
side. Lewis denied his guilt to the last.
A report that the negro committed the
murder at the instigation of Smith, which
has gained currency, is discredited by
his neighbors, but the facts and circum
connected with the affair will
stances all be sifted to the bottom.
