Judge Lynch Overrules the Order of
the N. D. Supreme
Granting a New Trial Court.
COUDOT, They are Taken From the SPICER
HOLY TRACK, Jail at Williamsport and
IRELAND. Hanged to a Beef Windlass. AVENGED MURDERS.
Mob of Forty Determined Farmers Do the Work
Quietly Just Before Daybreak Sunday Morning
- Two Accomplices Escape a Like Fate by
Being in Jail at Bismarck- Some Fears Ex
as to How the Indians on the Reser
pressed vation Will Take the News of the Lynching.
BISMARCK, N. D., Nov. 14.- Alec
Coudot, Indian half- breed; Paul Holy
Track and Philip Ireland, full- blooded
Indians; the first of whom was sentenced
to death for the murder of six
members of the Spicer family last Feb
ruary and had just been granted a
new trial by the supreme court, and
the latter two self- confessed accessories
in the murder, were taken from the
county jail in Emmons county last
night and lynched by a mob. The
lynching had been apparently coolly
planned, and was carried out without
a break in the programme, and sudden
and swift retribution was meted out
by the mob to the murderers.
Williamsport, where the hanging took
place, is about forty miles from this
city and off the railroad. The first news
of the hanging was received in this city
this afternoon, when a mounted messenger
arrived, his horse lathered with
foam from a swift ride, and announced
that the three men had been lynched.
The sheriff of the county, Peter Shier,
was in this city at the time the hanging
occurred, and it was to summon
him that the messenger rode in hot
haste to this city.
The men had been under the custody
of Deputy Sheriff Tom Kelly, and they
were taken from his custody by the
mob and hanged to a beef windlass
several hundred yards from the jail,
where their bodies were swinging to
the breeze during all the day, the coroner
not having arrived yet, and no
one volunteering to cut them down.
There were about forty men concerned
in the lynching. They rode into Wil
liamsport on horseback late at night
and picketed their horses outside the
city, that they might secure them
again as speedily as necessary after
the deed was done. The jail in which
the prisoners were confined is a substantial
stone structure, and was in
charge of Deputy Sheriff Thomas Kelly
. Since the confinement of the prisoners
therein so great has been the fear
that they might escape in some way
that one man has watched all night
within the jail, and last night Kelly
was on watch. There was a meeting
of the lodge of Woodmen in a building
near the jail, and, as Kelly was
a member, he expected to meet some
of the members of the lodge after the
meeting had adjourned, to consult with
them about some matter under consideration
by the lodge. To while away
the time during the night hours he
was playing solitaire at a little table
in front of the cells in which the murderers
were confined. At about 2 o'clock
in the morning
THERE WAS A RAP
at the outer door of the jail, and
Kelly arose quickly and turned
the
key in the lock, thinking that the
persons he expected to meet had arrived
. No sooner had he opened the
door than the members of the mob
crowded into the small jail corridor.
All of them were masked, and the
leaders carried ropes, purchased new
for the occasion. Kelly at once realized
that the mob had come after his
prisoners. The lynchers were quiet
but determined. The leader presented
a revolver at the head of the deputy
sheriff and told him they wanted his
prisoners, and demanded that he open
the cells in which they were confined.
Kelly demurred, but the leader of the
mob told him that they desired to
gain access to the cells, and, while
they did not want to harm him, it was
useless for him to resist, as the were
in force. Kelly saw that resistance
was useless and unlocked the cells.
Two of the prisoners were confined in
one cell, and the other in a separate
cell. They had been aroused from
sleep by the entrance of the men, and
sat up half awake and trembling with
terror. Holy Track and Ireland were
dragged from their beds, ropes were
fastened about their necks and they
were dragged out of the jail building,
after being told to prepare for death.
The mob had more consideration
Coudot, since the other two had con for
fessed their crime, but Coudot had
not, and the mob desired to learn
from him whether the two others were
guilty who are under arrest for the
crime. The self- confessed murderers
were dragged across the space intervening
between the jail and the wind
less, upon which they were hanged
without ceremony, reaching that spot
more dead than alive. Coudot was
to walk. He made a slight re
allowed sistance, but it was futile. There are
no trees in the vicinity of the scaffold,
and the mob was first at a loss for a
scaffold. The men were hurried to an
adjacent well, and an attempt made
to hang them from the curbing, but
it proved impossible. They were then
dragged to a log shack near by, and
an attempt was made to hang them
from the ends of the projecting logs,
but this effort also proved unavailing.
A huge beef windlass, which had been
erected to suspend the carcasses of
beeves, then offered the
slaughtered
means sought for, and the men were
dragged to this, and
STRUNG UP ON A CROSS BEAM.
Coudet was the first man to be
reported that he was
hanged. It is
asked before he was hanged whether
Black Hawk and Defender had also
been concerned in the murder for
which he was about to be
and answered that
hanged,
had been. The rope
they
fastened about his
which had been
neck was then thrown over the cross
beam, and he was raised off the ground
and suspended in air. Holy Track and
Ireland were so nearly unconscious
from the effects of the dragging that
they did not realize what was about
to happen when the ropes about their
necks were tossed over the same beam.
They were unable to stand and were
slowly raised from the ground on which
they lay until their bodies swung into
the air and dangled from the windlass
with that of Coudot, and the three
bodies swayed to and fro in the bright
moonlight, a ghastly spectacle. The
mob then dispersed, mounted their
horses and rode away.
The residents of Williamsport had
been aroused by this time to the fact
that something unusual was in progress
, and made their appearance from
the scattered houses in the little ham
let and gazed with alarm at the spectacle
. The night was a bright moonlight
one, and the actions of the mob
were plainly discernible from a considerable
distance. A few women gazed
, awe struck at the hanging of the
murderers, from the shadow of their
houses. There was no attempt
to interfere
with the mob, and there was
no noise of disturbance on the part
of the mob. They worked quietly
and with determination. They were in
sufficient force to have overcome any
resistance that might have been offered
, and, as there is no such thing
as a militia company or other like body
in the vicinity, and only a few residents
of the town, there was no one
to offer any opposition to the lynching.
HOW TWO ESCAPED.
There were two other men alleged to
have been implicated in the murders
for which the three were lynched, and
they were saved from the same fate
by the fact that they are confined in
the Burleigh county jail at Bismarck,
forty miles The mob would
away.
like to have secured them also, and, if
they had been within reach, there is
no doubt that they would have shared
the fate of their comrades. But when
Coud
Coudot was tried and sentenced to
death, the other two men were ordered
confined in the jail at Bismarck for
the reason that the Emmons county,
of the men.
jail had not facilities to confine all five
It is said that the lynching was precipitated
by a recent decision of the
supreme court of the state granting a
new trial to the Indian Coudot, the
only one of the five men who had been
tried and found guilty of the crime.
Lynching has been feared ever since
the men were first apprehended, but
the residents of the county stated that
they desired to see the men have a fair
trial. Coudot was the first man to be
tried, and he was convicted and sentenced
to be hanged on Oct. 29 last. His
case was appealed to the supreme court
on the ground that he had been convicted
upon the testimony of an accomplice
, Paul Holy Track, and that
that testimony had not been corroborated
. Upon this appeal the supreme
court decided to grant Coudot a new
trial, holding that there had been no
corroboration of the testimony of the
accomplice, and that the evidence in
the case did not warrant a conviction.
Unless the prosecution had additional
testimony to produce, this decision
would have resulted in the discharge
of the men. This prospect raised a
wave of indignation throughout the
county, which has resulted in
lynching early this morning. the
THE CRIME
for which the three men were hanged
was one of the most horrible in the
annals of brutality and atrocity. On
Feb. 17 last a passer entering the house
of Rev. Thomas Spicer, a Methodist
circuit rider, discovered the dead body
of his mother- in- law, Mrs. Ellen Wal
dron, lying upon the floor of the parlor
, horribly mutilated. Passing to
another room he found the body of
Mrs. William Rouse, a daughter of
Spicer, also dead, with her twin baby
boys brutally murdered, their brains
having been dashed out, and Mrs.
Rouse having been killed with a club.
At the barn was found the body of
Mrs. Spicer, likewise horribly
lated, she having been shot, and after muti
wards stabbed with a pitchfork, her
breast being filled with wounds, and
her head crushed with an ax. Inside
the barn was the body of Thomas
Spicer, who had been shot through
the back with a shotgun, and his
throat cut from ear to ear. The spectacle
was sickening, and the crime
created most intense excitement and
victims were
indignation The six
.
For
buried in graves side by side.
some time there was no clue to the
murderers, but the officers finally arrested
an Indian half- breed named
Coudot and a negro half- breed named
Black Hawk, upon suspicion of having
been concerned in the erime. Not long
afterwards rings and jewelry that had
disappeared from the Spicer house
at the time of the murder were found
in the possession of a young full- blooded
Indian, Paul Holy Track, and he,
with a companion, Phiip Ireland, was
arrested. They having been confined
in jail for several days, the two boys
made a complete confession of the
crime, implicating Black Hawk, Coudot
and an Indian named George Defender.
All of the men were arrested and
lodged in jail. Prior to the trial, Cou
dot made an attempt at suicide by
stabbing himself with a knife. Coudot
also made a statement in which he
accused Black Hawk of the crime. The
trials of the men were begun at Will
iamsport last July. The young In
dians went on the stand and recited
the story of the murders, a narrative
so horrible as to sicken every hearer.
The testimony showed that the idea
of killing some family in the vicinity
of Winona for their money was conceived
by the two men, Black Hawk
and Coudot. On Feb. 11, the Indian,
Holy Track, who had known Black
Hawk for thirteen years, met Black
Hawk on the bank of the river in the
timber between Winona and the Standing
Rock agency. Holy Track was on
his way to Winona to buy whisky.
The two had a rambling conversation,
and Black Hawk called attention to
the number of cattle in the vicinity
that had no brands, and suggested
that they kill some of them and sell
the beef. From this the conversation
was skillfully led about by Black Hawk
to the subject of murder, and he asked
young Holy Track what he thought
of the idea of killing some neighboring
family for their money. The young
Indian acquiesced in the plan, and
Black Hawk gave him a bottle of whisky
to
SEAL THE COMPACT.
On the following Saturday Holy
Track met Coudot at the agency, and
the two went down under a hill near,
to talk over some matters, at the re
When they arrived
quest of Coudot.
at a secluded place Coudot asked the
other man if he had ever had any conversation
with Black Hawk, and Holy
Track said he had. Then Coudot asked
him what he thought of the plan, and
Holy Track said it was all right and
that he was willing. The Indian De
fender made his appearance shortly after
the two had come to an agreement,
and was informed by Coudot that Holy
Track was willing to enter into the
scheme of murder, showing that De
fender was already cognizant of what
had been proposed by Black Hawk.
After some discussion, the murderers
settled upon the Spicer family, because
there was known to be only one old
man there, and the erime could be accomplished
without danger to the murderers
.
A few days later Coudot again saw
the Indian Holy Track and said that,
if they did the deed at the time
upon between them and Black agreed Hawk,
and the latter was one of the participants
, he would get all the money, as
he had cheated them in sundry criminal
negotiations before. Accordingly,
he proposed that they do the killing
on the following day, before the time
that Black Hawk had suggested it be
done, and steal a march on him. Holy
Track agreed to this. He had already
told young Philip Ireland of the plan,
and the boy had agreed to it, under the
influence of the older Indians. On the
following day, Feb. 17, Holy Track and
Ireland rode to the Spicer place, according
to a previously arranged plan,
and waited there for the arrival of
Coudot and Defender, when the
der was to be done. mur
They arrived shortly after noon. The
two boys went into the house and waited
for the arrival of the other men.
When they came, which was after some
little time, Defender asked Holy Track
in Indian what number of persons were
at the house, and, upon being told, said
he would take the horses they had
ridden down into the timber, and then
come back and help do the killing. All
of the men were drunk, and the pro
posed murder was thus discussed in
Indian in the presence of Mrs. Spicer.
After the two men had gone out she
asked Holy Track what they had said,
and he told her they were hungry and
had not had their dinner, to which
she responded that if she had known
that she would have given them their
dinner. She noticed their evident intoxication
at the time and
upon it. commented
For the balance of the terrible affair
and the actual details of the killing
, we have the words of young
Track himself, who said in Holy
HIS CONFESSION:
" Spicer went out of the house to the stable
and Ireland and I went with him. We were
there quite a long time before Coudot and
Defender came back. The old man( Spicer)
was hauling farm refuse. Defender, Coudot
and myself were inside, and when Spicer
would go out we would go behind the door
and take a drink. Finally, when he went out
with a load, Coudot told me to shoot, and I
said I couldn't do it. Then he told. Defender
to shoot, and he said he couldn't do it. We
wanted Coudot to shoot, and he wouldn't do
it. Then I told them to give me the gun, that
I would do it, and the next time started
out with a load I shot him. Defender he picked
up the pitchfork and jabbed him. Philip came
in the stable then, and Defender told him to
go and get the shovel and hit him, and he
did. I told Philip to load up the gun again,
and I went in and took another drink. After
we had all gone inside of the stable again
Defender wanted to go up and bring Mrs.
Spicer down, and he would not do it so I
went. I went up to the house and told her
that her man wanted her, and she wanted to
know if the Indians had come to buy her
horse and I told her yes. When we got close
to the stable I ran in and told Defender to
shoot, and he said he couldn't so I took the
gun and just as she got inside the door I
shot her. Philip went and stabbed her with
the fork, and Defender hit her with an ax,
and Coudot hit her with a shovel. We came
out of the stable and drank two bottles of
whisky and covered up the blood. Coudot
said," Let us get some clubs and go up to
the house." He picked up the ax, and De
fender a cottonwood club. When we were
going in I heard the women crying, and I
threw away a cordwood stick I had, and
picked up a branding iron. Coudot went in
first, and when I got in he was lying on the
floor, near the cellar, and had dropped the
ax. I the branding iron and picked
up the dropped ax. The young woman( Mrs. Rouse)
was standing close to the door on the other
side, and when I went up to strike her I
struck over the door. After striking the door
I lowered the ax and started to go in, and
she struck me over the head with a hoe. The
blood ran down in my eyes, and I dropped
the ax and went out toward the door. Coudot
picked up the ax and went into the other
room, and then I saw Philip strike the old
lady( Mrs. Waldron). He knocked her down.
I wiped the blood off my face and went in
again. The young woman was still standing
there, and I hit her twice with the branding
iron. Defender had already killed one of the
babies. He killed them with the leg of a
table. After they were all killed we searched
the house, and went back to the river and
crossed on the ice. We drank seven bottles
of whisky while we were there."
Alec Coudot was the eldest of the
three men who were lynched. He was
of French and Indian extraction, and
perhaps thirty- five years of age. Holy
Track was a full- blooded Indian, perhaps
twenty years of age, and a fiend
incarnate. He was well educated, and
talked and wrote English fluently. He
stated on the witness stand that he
was willing to die, and that when he
came to the scaffold all he wanted
was to sing a song, smoke a cigarette
and dance. Ireland was a mere boy,
not over seventeen years of age, and
undoubtedly led into the crime by
the was others.
NEWS OF THE LYNCHING
received by Sheriff Peter
was first
Shier late this afternoon from the messenger
who rode up from Williamsport.
He was shocked to learn that the men
had met with mob violence, but
there have been threats of lynching as
ever since the men were arrested, and
he has several times had to exercise
considerable strategy to remove the
murderers from one place to another
without letting them fall into the
hands of the mob he was not altogeth-
,
er unprepared for such news. Had the
sheriff been there at the time of the
affair, it is doubtful if it would have
passed off as quietly as it did, as he is
a courageous officer and would not
have surrendered the men without a
struggle. He left at once upon receipt
of the news for Williamsport to
take action in the matter. Gov. Briggs
is out of the state, and a message was
sent to him this afternoon apprising
him of the lynching. What action will
be taken by the authorities remains to
be seen. It is doubtful if any of the
men who took part in the affair can be
identified. The sentiment in Emmons
county is all against the men, and,
while there will be regret at the fact
that the mob took the matter into their
own hands, few, if any, will admit that
the fate of the men was undeserved.
Memory of their awful crime is still
fresh, and there is no doubt in the
minds of the residents of that county
that the men were guilty.
The Standing Rock Indian reservation
is only about fifty miles from the
scene of the lynching. The better class
of the Indians professed no sympathy
for the murderers, and at the time of
the confession of the crime applied to
the Indian authorities to take the In
dians out and shoot them, after their
fashion of punishing murderers, but
there is no doubt that the victims had
friends on the reservation, and what
complications may arise cannot be told.
The Indians may seek revenge for the
lynching of their tribesmen, as they
have all along stated that they were
satisfied to have them hanged legally,
but did not want to see them hanged
by a mob. Great excitement prevails
here at the news, and Sheriff Taylor,
in whose custody are two more of the
murderers in this city, has prepared
for an extra guard of the jail tonight,
lest there be an attempt to take the
men here from jail by the same mob,
this attempt is deemed unlikely
although.
