A friend of ours, who arrived in the city
yesterday from Arkansas, informs us of
the following startling particulars, show-
ing the summary manner in which that
law, more tyrannous than the code of
Draco -- Lynch Law- has in this, as well
as in every other instance where it has
been appealed to, been carried into effect.
Between the 5th and 10th inst., Phillips
county, in Arkansas, about forty miles below
Helens, and the county of Coahoma,
in Mississippi, on the opposite side of the
river, appears to have become the scene of
mob and Lynch law to a greater extent
than has lately been recorded by the public
press. A numerous gang of counter-
forms.feiters had their places of rendezvous and
the abodes of their families in the above
named counties, to the great and contin-
ned annoyance of the citizens and the
trading flat boat men on the river. Besides
their encroachment on the
and property of the public in that peace way.
they of late turned their criminal industry
to horse stealing to such so extent as to
rouse the citizens of the whole neighborhood
. The latter, headed by Capt Bar-
ney Bradford, formed into volunteer
company of about 100 well armed men.
commanded and led by said Capt. Brad-
ord, Mr. J. Lunsford, and Spear, from
Arkansas, and Squire Forrer and James
How arton, from Mississippi, and alter an
active search of several days, succeeded
in capturing 27 men, among whom we
learned the following names: Hugh Tal
ley, Lewis Hinoston. Andrew McLaugh.
lin. Willie Pollock, Hugh Cotton. Elliot
and Robert Hunter, the latter, lately from
New York, Joe Merritt and McCormick
The volunteers used the following strats
gem te seize the scoundrels. They engaged
a trading boat at flelena, and bid
about 50 men in the store room; they
then descended the river, landing at every
place where they expected to fall in
with the counterleiters. These depraved
men came board to purchase
on produce
,
with the intention of paying for it in counterfeit
money. They were thus taken and
secured in the boat. When the number
bad increased to 27 men, they were tied
hand and feet, and, as the report says
drowned in the Mississippi tesz leland
No. GD, in the presence of two men. Har-
rod and Burgess, who, it appears, officia
, or at least fook at active part in the
execution of the sentence. We ander
stand that the company is increasing in
number, sad intends to proceed to the
mouth of the White river. When our informant
met a division of them, they were
in pursuit of a certain Merriss Wright
When he arrived at Napoleon, at the
mouth of Arkadene viver, he learned that
some six or seven dead bodies had been
seen floating on the river opposite that
place, and also that some of the counterfeiters
who escaped had been sess
ing down the river with uncommon speed
in order to evade their porras-
Oriens Bee New
