LYNCH LAW ADVOCATED
Man That Nominated Bryan for the Pres ica
dency G- es Reasons for It.
Atlanta, Ga., July 3- In the Georgia Bar
Association meeting today the singular
spectacle was presented of the most distinguished
lawyers of the state giving their to
- indorsement to lynch law. The symposium
was led by Hon. Hal T. Lewis, known all
over the Union as having nominated Mr.
He
Bryan in the Chicago convention.
said:
" Lynchings in Georgia are almost invari-
' ably the result of horrible outrages perpetrated
upon helpless and defenseless women
. It is because the people are appre-
,
hended that such a culprit with proof of
guilt would escape punishment if left in the
custody of the law? No one doubts that
under our system as it stands his convie-
: tion would be assured. Is it because an
unreasonable delay in trial and execution
: is apprehended? No one doubts the readi-
. ness of any judge in Georgia to call a special
term of the court in such cases, whether so
the welfare of society demands it. Is it
because of an unusual spirit of lawlessness
: among the white people of Georgia that
they would perpetrate or permit such mob
violence? I dare say that the criminal
. record of this class of her people will compare
with that of any state or nation on the
globe. Why, then, is lynch law more frequently
practiced here than in the north
No
and west? It is because the crime to which
: we have referred is more frequent here and
the danger of its perpetration greater. He
that supposes this evil can be corrected
by legislation simply does not understand
and appreciate the situation, especially in
: our rural districts.
" This crime is committed by the negro,
and, strange to say, he selects a white victim
, as if his brutal passion was fired with
an element of malignity against the Cau-
.
casian race. The laboring farmer often
has to leave his white wife and children at
home, beyond call of neighbors or reach of
When the news of the outrage
help.
spreads every man within the sphere of its
influence takes it home to himself, not
knowing when the happiness of his home
: circle may be forever blighted by an injury
at more fearful than death. The Anglo- Sax-
on blood that courses through the veins is
white heat. He reasons that
inflamed to a
such a criminal at large is more to be
dreaded than the most ferocious beast that
ever roamed the forest; that he has placed
himself beyond the pale of the law or
an clergy. He is lynched because his victim
should not be subjecaed to the further hu-
millation of detailing the crime which she
can hardly whisper to her husband cr
. breathe to her parents. He is lynched because
of the conviction in the public mind
of that this is the only effectual way of pre-
the offense. is
of He
venting a repetition
for
lynched, not because the lynchers have less
it regard for law and order, but because they
have more concern for the sancity of home
and the protection of its inmates.
of" To attempt a correction of such a sen-
- timent, such anxieties, such feeling by
. statute would prove as futtle as an effort
last to overcome the fury of the cyclone or to
- prevent the lightning flashes from the storm
cloud."
These sentiments were indorsed by such
de-
men as Colonel Thomas, Hon. W. C. Glenn
run called for one spirited
and only
and others,
from Colonel L.
,
speech on the other side
, Hammond, formely member of congress
K. from the Atlanta district.
