STRUNG UP BY A MOB.
NEGRO LYNCHED BY FRENZIED
PEOPLE OF URBANA, O.
Mob's First Attempt Was Met by
Deadly Volleys of Rifle Bullets- Authorities
Didn't Interfere with the
Second Attack,
Night of Awful Sensations.
" Glick" Mitchell, the Urbana, O., negro
brute, has paid the penalty of his foul
crime with his life. An outraged people
took the la: 7 into their own hands and
meted out to him the punishment he so
richly deserved and obeyed the command
and wish of his prostrate and, as announced
, dying victim. He was hanged to a
tree in the court yard Friday in broad
daylight after a night of horror and tragedy
.,
Recently Mrs. Eliza Gaumer, the widow
of the late publisher of the Urbana Democrat
, was criminally assaulted by Chas.
Mitchell, alias" Glick" Mitchell, a notorious
negro, who was arraigned Wednes
day, but his victim was too ill to appear
in court. The man was taken to her home
for identification. As he entered the door
she raised herself on her elbow and ex
claimed:" The brute! Hang him! How
In de
dare you face me, you, brute!"
fault of$ 1,000 bail Mitchell was locked
up in the city prison, but on account of
the feeling was removed to the county jail
the same night for safe keeping.
From the time of his arrest threats of
lynching were made, and Sheriff McLean
took all precautions to prevent it, securing
from the Governor the services of
two companies of militia. His indictment
by the grand jury, his plea of guilty and
the sentence were all recorded within tour
hours Thursday evening. His sentence
was to twenty years' imprisonment, and
he was to have been taken from the Ur
bana jail Friday to begin the term.
Thursday night the jail was surrounded
by a threatening mob. News of the in
tended attack on the prisoner reached the
officers of the court in the afternoon, and
they called on the Governor for militia
to protect Mitchell. The local company
was ordered out, and took up lodgings under
arms in the jail. At 2:30 o'clock Fri
day morning a mob attacked the jail with
sledge hammers. The militiamen fired
into the crowd, killing and wounding
many of the attacking party and repelling
the assault.
At 7:10 o'clock in the morning a company
of militiamen arrived from Spring
field, O. The crewd, already enraged at
the authorities, rallied for another at
tack on the jail. This time the authorities
made no resistance. None of the men in
charge had the nerve to order another volley
turned into the bodies of s towns
men. The negro was hustled out of his
cell and hanged to the nearest tree in the
presence of a howling mob of 2,000 per
sons, over 500 of whom were women. The
feeling is intense against the sheriff for
allowing the National Guards to fire on
the people, there is a very general
approval of the and work of the mob.
