PAT LARGEY ASSASSINATED
SHOT DOWN IN HIS BANK.
Thomas J. Riley, the Murderer,
Claimed That Largey Had Promised
Him Work, but Deceived
Him- Denied by Largey's Friends.
Butte, Mont., Jan. 12.- Patrick A. Lar-
gey, president of the State Savings bank,
one of the best known citizens of Butte,
was shot and killed in the bank building
about 1 o'clock yesterday afternoon by
Thomas J. Riley.
Riley entered the bank five or ten minutes
before committing the bloody act.
He called Largey to the cashier's window
and the two talked for five minutes
or more. They were conversing in ordinary
tones, and there was nothing to indicate
that their talk was otherwise than
friendly. Suddenly Riley drew a gun and
shot through the window at Largey. The
bullet struck the latter in the left arm
and shattered the bone. Largey stooped
down, and had he continued in that position
he might have escaped with his life,
as he was protected by the counter. However
, he rose partly, and as he did so Riley
fired a second shot. The bullet struck Mr.
Largey squarely in the forehead and he
fell over on the floor dead.
The murderer started for the front door
on Park street. As he passed the teller's
window he took a shot at those behind
the railing. The bullet narrowly missed
Frank Holmes, one of the clerks, dug a
hole in his desk and went through a glass
in one of the windows on the Main street
side of the building. Riley then rushed
out of the Park street door, thrusting his
pistol into his pocket as he did so.
Assassin Was Captured.
William Huselton, a customer of the
bank, was outside the railing when the
shooting occurred. He made a rush for
the man, but deterred by the sight of the
weapon, did not grab him. He followed
Riley out, however. The murderer hurried
west on Park street, followed by Hus-
elton, who kept calling out to arrest the
man.
Officers attracted by the shooting did
so, and he was taken to jail.
" He fooled me too long," exclaimed
Riley, when he arrived at the county jail,
" and I killed him. He kept promising me
work, but he did not give me any, and I
could not stand it any longer. Now, if
you want to hang me for it, all right.
Give me a quick trial and end it."
The murderer has but one leg. He lost
the other in the explosion of the powder
warehouses at the Montana Central yards
on January 15, 1895, and has since worn
a cork leg.
Grew Out of an Explosion.
Largey was the manager of one of the
companies whose warehouses exploded and
caused the loss of 58 lives. In contradiction
to his statement that Largey refused
to help him, it is a well known fact
that the banker frequently helped him. He
secured employment for him a number of
times, but Riley was unable to hold a
position any length of time. Besides,
Largey occasionally supplied him with
money.
It is asserted that the killing was the
result of a conspiracy or understanding to
murder more than one man who had managerial
or proprietary interests in the two
warehouses that were the scene of the explosions
. These warehouses belonged to
the Butte Hardware Company, of which
Largey was manager, and the Kenyon-
Connell Company, of which W. R. Ken-
yon was the head.
Suits for damages aggregating$ 250,000
were brought, and several verdicts secured
, but the explosions and subsequent attachments
had exhausted the resources of
the Kenyon- Connell Company, while the
Butte Hardware Company had gone into
liquidation and the judgments are unsatisfied
.
There is strong talk of lynching Riley
and four other murderers, confined in the
jail.
Riley was taken to Deer Lodge penitentiary
this afternoon in company with Bob
Shadwell, the other murderer, to prevent
lynching, which looked possible. They
smuggled out of town in the poor
farm were ambulance.
