MOB LYNCHED THEIR MAN.
Masked Men at Colfax Execute Hay-
den's Alleged Slayer.
Colfax, Jan. 9.- The long expected
lynching has occurred, but instead of
four men being hanged, there was only
one victim of the mob's vengeance.
Chadwick Marshall, alias" Blackey,"
lies dead on a slab in the undertaker's
parlors, but Robert McDonald, alias" Da-
kota Slim," whom" Blackey" claimed was
his partner in the robbery and murder of
Orville Hayden, escaped with his life by
feigning death after one of the most desperate
and tragic battles ever waged by
one man against an armed mob.
The lynching occurred at 1:30 yesterday
morning, and was done so quietly
that people sleeping in the court house
knew nothing of the occurrence until the
mob had dispersed. There were only 21
men in the mob, and all were masked.
They came to Colfax in sleighs and on
horseback, leaving their conveyances in
the north end of town and marching to
the jail. At the court house they divided,
part of the mob entering by a side door
in the basement, leading to the living
rooms of Jailer Treff, the remainder entering
the front door of the court house.
Jailer Let Them In.
The jailer was awakened and told that
officers outside had a prisoner for him.
He arose, dressed and opened the door,
where he was confronted by several armed
and masked men, who covered him
with their revolvers and commanded him
to accompany them and secure the keys.
He did so, opening the safe and getting
the keys, unlocked the solid steel door
leading into the jailer's office, which is
between the men's and women's wards
of the jail. Inside the jail, William Can-
tonwine, who had been employed for the
double purpose of watching Jack Leon-
ard, who is soon to be re- sentenced to
hang, and to guard the jail in case of an
attack, which has been expected for some
time, was encountered.
When the mob entered the court house
Cantonwine retreated into the main corridor
of the jail and locked the door. The
mob pushed Jailer Treff in advance of
them against the door and demanded admittance
. Cantonwine hesitated, and
Treff said to him:" I guess you will have
to open the door. We can't help ourselves
." He then unlocked the door and
the mob entered. They went upstairs to
the upper tier of cells and unlocked the
door, and then went direct to" Blackey's"
cell. The door to this cell was unlocked
before" Blacky" awoke.
Short and Brutal Work.
He seemed to realize the situation at
once, for he sprang from his bed and began
to plead for his life. One of the pris-
Blacky" remarked:" Don't
oners says"
, I am inno-
hurt me. Before God, men
cent." He was allowed to say no more.
There was the sound of a blow, a thud,
a gasp and the wretched man fell. The
rope, which had been prepared with a
hangman's noose, was slipped over his
head and one man took the rope, close
by" Blacky's" neck, while two men took
himb by the feet, and he was carried out
of the cell down the stairs through the
jailer's office and upstairs to the court
room. His head was badly battered and
blood marked the trail to the place of
execution.
There is no doubt that" Blacky" was
unconscious from the time the blow was
struck, as he was limp and apparently
lifeless when carried upstairs, and when
thrown out of the window his foot
caught on the molding of the window
below, and remained in this position until
the body was removed.
Dakota Slim Escapes.
After several attempts the mob gave
up the attempt to get" Slim" from his
cell. One of the men stepped about half
way down the flight of stairs leading to
his cell and taking deliberate aim at the
shriek
fired. wild
prisoner, With a
" Slim" fell to the floor, where he gasped
" My God, I'm Killed!" The mob called
to him but he did not answer and believing
him dead, they left. When the mob
had dispersed Jailer Treff went to see if
" Slim" was dead and was surprised to find
him alive and unhurt. He refused the attention
of a physician, although the jailer
insisted upon calling in Dr. Ferguson, the
jail physician. The bullet had struck a
bar in the door and flattened; a small
piece struck" Slim's" chest and another
passed through his shirt sleeve.
" Dakota Slim" has been taken to Walla
to frustrate any further effort to
Walla lynch him.
