The Sleep of Governor- Elect Leedy Is
WILL BE NO RACE WAR
EXCITEMENT QUIETING DOWN AT
MAYFIELD, KY.
REPORTS MUCH EXAGGERATED.
ANOTHER COLORED MAN SHOT
DOWN YESTERDAY.
He Was Acting in a Suspicious Manner
- Citizens Hold a Meeting and
Denounce the Work of the
Mob- Other Criminal
News.
Mayfield, Ky., Dec. 23.- There is still con-
siderable excitement here, growing out of
the lynching of Jim Stone, the negro rav- 1
isher, Monday, and the burning yesterday
of a number of negro resorts. The mob
claimed its second victim early this morning
, in the person of Will Snett, colored,
aged 18 years. The shooting was the result
of last night's flurry, caused by wild
reports of a threatened attack by negroes
bent upon avenging Stone's death. It was
said that bands of negroes were arming at
Clay station, near here, and that they
would be reinforced by others of their race
from Fulton and other neighboring towns.
This caused alarm here, Mayor Whitte-
more taking the precaution to arm a large
number of citizens, who patrolled the
streets all night. At an early hour in
the morning, Snett and two companions
were seen on the outskirts of the city acting
in a suspicious manner. They ran,
on the appearance of the officers, and
Snett was shot down.
The reports of an onslaught by vengeful
negroes seem to have been greatly exaggerated
, and, while things have not assumed
their normal condition to- night,
nothing like a race war is believed to be
probable. Offers of assistance, if needed,
from the whites at Fulton, Paducah and
many of the neighboring towns were received
at the first outbreak of the trouble,
but no aid has been asked.
Citizens of Mayfield held a meeting this
afternoon and denounced the recent work
of the mob and called upon the authorities
to prevent further violence. At 11
o'clock to- night everything is quiet.
The outbreak, threatened and real, between
the whites and negroes, was bad
enough and dangerous enough, but the
feeling here is that it has been somewhat
exaggerated. The conflict at first, and, indeed
, all through, has not been between
whites and negroes as negroes indiscriminately
. It was a war against a low criminal
and semi- criminal class of blacks who
were demoralizing the better class of ne-
groes and terrorizing both blacks and
whites. That it was not an indiscriminate
fight against blacks, as such, was evidenced
in the mass meeting composed almost
equally of blacks and whites held
here to- day. It was a perfectly harmonious
meeting and its voice was unanimously
for law and order, but none the less unanimously
for self- protection until the officers
of the law could control the seditious
element. Speeches were made by both
blacks and whites. Conciliatory measures
were counseled, but at the same time the
continuance of precautionary measures
was advised. A large number of armed
deputy police, therefore, patrol the town
for the present, but a new sense of security
prevails.
Paducah, Ky., Dec. 23.- The Mayfield race
war is at an end. Everything is quiet. A
mass meeting of both white and colored
people to- night came to an understanding
that peace skould reign. Mayfield is quiet
to- night. Thirty deputized policemen are
patrolling the city. There is nothing to
be alarmed about in the vicinity of
ducah. Pa-
