A MURDERER LYNCHED.
A Foul Assassination in Tennessed
Promptly Avenged,
MIDDLESBORO, Ky., March 27.-J. A.
Burke, ticket agent and telegraph operator
for the Knoxville, Cumberland Gap and
Louisville Railroad at Cumberland Gap,
Tenn., was shot and instantly killed by
Thos. Hunter, a mulatto, at 11 o'clock last
night, at that place. Burke came here
about a year ago to work for the Western
Union Telegraph Company, leaving his
wife and two children at Shelby City, Ky.
He was a brother- in- law of the Marshal
who was killed only a few weeks ago by
negro in the riot which took place at Juno
tion City. Hunter was a servant of Mr.
Frank Watts, a rich young Englishmas
who resides at the Gap. There was ne
reason whatever for the shooting unless it
be that Hunter was intoxicated and wanted
to see blood shed. He watched for his victim
, who was on his way home, and emptied
the contents of a shotgun into his face at
range of less than 8 feet. One hundred and
thirty- five holes were counted, Burke's
eyes being blown out and his head and face
terribly disfigured. After the shooting the
murderer fled to Middlesboro and
to conceal himself. attempted
He was captured this morning by the
police authorities of this city, who, fearing
violence might be done their man, started
by way of Baptist Gap for Tazwell, the
county seat of Claibourne County. Three
hundred armed men were, however, on the
lookout, and had pickets scattered over the
mountain. Near Hamilton Springs, in
Tennessee, the prisoner was turned over to
Cumberland Gap officers, but shortly after
ward the posse overhauled them and took
the prisoner from them. He was promptly
conducted to the nearest tree and strung
up, his body being fairly riddled with bullets
, seventeen shots being fired at it. The
scene of the lynching was the side of the
Cumberland Mountains, a few miles east of
Cumberland Gap. The officers were heavily
armed, but were powerless in the presence
of the mounted band of determined
men who so promptly avenged the foul
sassination of Burke. as
