" Perhaps no single lynching or riot
in our country has brought out such
universal comment as the late race
war at Atlanta. Single lynching and
serious disturbances have occurred
from time to time. but nothing of the
of the Atlanta affair.
proportion
Among the many expressions of the
press, we think the public will settle
upon a few stern, fundamental facts
that should prove great profit in
dealing with this meracing of problem in
Another press comment falsely
charges the riot to the jealousy on the
part of the white people of the South
of the more progressive negro element
. This must also be eleminated.
We do not understand that there is
any serious antagonism among south.
erners to the honest industrious negro.
They are willing that he advance to
the limit of his power. They ought
also to be willing that the moral and
intelligent negroes should freely exercise
their suffrage rights. Other-
wise these will harbor a constant re-
sentment against being deprived of
a weapon in the ballot box with which,
nearly everywhere else in the world,
the industrial and lowly classes are
bettering their conditions. There has
always been friction between the
" poor whites" and the negroes suffi-
cient to furnish a motive for lynching
upon slightest provocation.
sometimes We believe the entire country has
roving, vicious negroes, where the
vilest of liquor and cocaine could be
procured for next to nothing and where
lecherous paintings, covering the walls,
inflamed the half crazed loungers to
heinous deeds. Just here is where
breeds, and
not only Atlanta, but every city in the
country can profit infinitely. Possibly
we will learn sometime to stamp out
these hot beds where germinate the
seeds of rape and murder. Atlanta
is now seeing the need of such steps
proceeding against them. If
and is
she applies herself persistently to this
work until these dives are all wiped
out and as persistently compel this
idle class to either work or walk, it
will be a long day before we hear of
another such disgraceful uprising.
But so long as these awful crimes of
feindish lust are committed, proportionable
lynchings will occur North
In zeal for denoun-
and South. our
