FIVE PRISONERS LYNCHED
Mob of Indiana Farmers Take Re
Robberies.
venge For
GUNS AWED THE JAILERS.
The Men Were Held in Versailles,
Ind., For Robbery- The Farmers Had
Been the Victims of the Thieves For
Long Time- Jall Ralded Easily-
a The Men Beaten, Shot and Hanged.
VERSAILLES, Ind.( Special) .- Incensed by
numerous depredations, burglaries and
daylight robberies, the people of Ripley
County have taken the law into their own
hands. Five men who have long been a
terror to the citizens of this county were
lynched here Wednesday night. This is the
county seat and a town of eight hundred
people. It is one of the oldest towns
in the State, but it is five miles
from a railroad station, and has
no telegraph office. For four or
five years the farmers of the county have
been the victims of a lawless gang whose
depredations have continued unceasingly.
Arrests have been made, but the guilty men
have covered up their lawlessness, and it
was seldom that conviction followed. On
Saturday last word was received by the
Sheriff that the store of Wooley Brothers,
at Correct, Ind., ten miles from here,
was to be entered. The information was
given by one of the gang who had been under
suspicion. Sheriff Henry Rushing,
with his informant and five deputies, went
to the place. Shortly after midnight the
gang reached the store. Clifford G. Gor-
don and the Sheriff's informant were designated
to break into the building. Gordon
effected an entrance, and just as he stopped
inside the Sheriff grabbed him. Both pulled
pistols and began firing. Bert Andrews,
who was with the robbers, joined in the
fusillade, while the deputies came to the
assistance of the Sheriff.
The Sheriff was shot through the hand
and Gordon was shot several times. Three
pistol balls entered his body, and he was
also wounded in the leg. Gordon and An-
drews succeeded in escaping and came to
Osgood, where they were arrested. The
robbers had driven out to the place in a
buggy belonging to Lyle Levi, and it was
learned that the robbery had been planned
at the home of William Jenkins, Levi and
Jenkins were arrested as accessories. All
were taken to the jail at Versailles. Henry
Shulter was put in the jail for robbing the
barber shop at Osgood last week.
able to fix
various
While the were
robberies upon these men, they
were thought to belong to the gang that
has committed most of them. When it became
known that they were in jail, it was
quietly suggested by the victims and sympathizers
that" justice" be summarily dealt
out to the prisoners. At 1 o'clock a. m.
horsemen seemed to come from all quarters
and dismounted on a hillside near Ver-
sailles, and soon about four hundred men
marched into the town.
Shortly before 2 o'clock there was a knock
at the door, and when the jailer opened the
door he was face to face with pistols held
by three masked men, who asked him to
turn over the keys. This he did, and
then the mob flled into the jail.
Three of the prisoners- Levi, Jenkins
and Shulter- were on the lower floor, while
Gordon and Andrew were in the upper
tier. Levi, Jenkins and Shulter showed
fight, and the former was shot through the
breast, while the skulls of the two others
were crushed with a stool. Ropes were
in readiness, and adjusting a noose
around the neck of each and pinioning
their feet and hands was
the work of a few minutes. With
el men at the end of each rope, the
five přisollenda. Vags Muthara
feet to an elm tree, where their bodies
were suspended. It is said that Levi,
Jenkins and Shulter were dead before they
reached the place. Levi was fifty- seven
years old, Andrews thirty- four, Jenkins
twenty- seven, Shulter twenty- four
Gordon twenty- two. and
