Bushnell Blames the Sheriff.
COLUMBUS, Ohio, June 5, 1897.- Governor
Bushnell was asked by the Assoclat-
ed Press what, if anything he desired to
say about the lynching of a negro at the
Unbana jail. He said in effect that a
sheriff, by the laws of Ohio, has power
to call on State troops in his county to
protect persons and property. The law
of Ohio is peculiar in this respect. The
sheriff at Urbana called the local company
into service, I was at Wooster.
word came to me at 11:15 P. M., Thurs-
day of the pending trouble. I was at a
banquet of the Sons of Veterans, It
took the messenger twenty minutes to
find
me. The word was from Captain
Leonard in command of the Urbana company
of State troops at the jail in which
the negro was imprisoned and whose life
was threatened.
Captain Leonard said he wanted help.
The Governor said he did not look upon
the message of Captain Leonard as be-
visiting from the proper source. The telephone
people of Wooster were in bed.
They were secured by 1:45 P. M. I got
Sheriff MoLane at Urbana by telephone.
He told me he had forty men. I told him
he ought to be able to protect the prisoner
and property with forty men.( I
have since learned he had fifty- five men.)
He said he would do the best he could
but public sentiment was dead against
him. I said he had nothing to do with
public sentiment. His duty was obey
the law. He did not ask for help. to I left
the telephone office at midnight.
" The shooting by the Urbana company
occurred after that conversation.
' At three A. M. a message came from
Sheriff McLain saying his force was inadequate
and for me to send help.
" I immediately telephoned Captain
Bradbury, Company B, Third Ohio Infantry
, Springfield, to report with his
company to Sheriff McLain at Urbana.
At the same time I telephoned Sheriff
McLain that Captain Bradbury would report
to him.
" Captain Bradbury arrived at Urbana
at or before seven A. M. Colonel Anthony
of the Third Ohio Infantry, to which is
attached the Springfield and Urbana companies
, says Sheriff McLain told him that
Captain Bradbury of Springfield reported
to and talked with him( the Sheriff) and
was directed by the Sheriff to return to
the train, or to Springfield, and the
Springfield troops did return to the train."
The lynching occurred not more than
minutes later, according to the
thirty
best information at the Governor's office,
Captain Bradbury said by telephone to
the Adjutant General's office here that
when he was ordered by the Sheriff to
return to the train, he sat in the presence
of the sheriff as long as he could consistently
and then retired.
The Governor said the sheriff did not
inform him of the existing trouble until
it had reached its climax, although the
thing had been brewing several days. He
has been assured by all classes of people
in Urbana that he did all that could
have been done under the circumstances.
Adjutant General Axline who was
present at the interview today, said the
Mayor of Urbana telephoned him that the
" Governor and troops were in no way to
blame, they did all they could. If there
is any one to blame it is myself and the
sheriff, and so far as I am concerned I
am perfectly will to take my share of the
blame."
The Mayor further said there was ample
provocation for the firing of the militia at
2:30 and he did not blame them for doing
their duty. The sheriff, he said, did not
manage things right and did not seem to
appreciate the gravity of the situation
until it was too late to avoid the lynching
without an" awful slaughter human
life." of
