DOWN ON THE SHERIFF.
More Trouble at Urbana
Likely to Result from
the Firing by the
Troops.
RELATIVES WANT VENGEANCE
Bushnell Throws the Blame On
M'Lain- Urbana's Mayor
Talks.
COLUMBUS, Ohio, June 5, 1897.- A
special to the" Dispatch" from Urbana
says that Urbana this morning is a very
different place from the Urbana of yesterday
. The city has resumed its normal
condition and the scene has changed entirely
. Instead of a negro dangling from
a tree on the most prominent street corner
, the excited populace thronging the
streets, the military and sheriff hiding
in the county jail, the spectacle of a
peaceable community, a fleeing sheriff, a
missing captain and a military company
making themselves scarce is presented.
Nothing is known of the whereabouts of
Sheriff McLain and Captain Leonard. It
is the general understanding that the
Sheriff drove to Springfield and nobody
outside the Captain's circle of
friends know where he went. It immediate was re-
ported last evening that a mob of 150 was
organizing to go to Springfield after the
Sheriff and such word went to Spring-
field, having the effect, it is said, of driving
the Sheriff off to Dayton. He is
universally condemned by the people and
held responsible for the shooting of citizens
by the militia.
The citizens insist that he was overzealous
in this matter and should have
refrained from ordering out the troops.
Captain Leonard is condemned for ordering
the soldiers to fire and the company
for firing into a crowd of their fellow
citizens. After their escape from the jail
the members of the company have not
dared to show themselves the
upon
streets and many of them have left the
city. A liveryman took a timid squad of
them to Springfield.
Their troubles are not over with yet.
Some of the wounded claim to know who
shot them and several thrashings are laid
up. It is reported that Theodore Bell,
the father of Harry Bell, who was killed,
threatens to kill Captain Leonard он
sight.
The son was an unmarried man about
twenty years old. Baker, the other man
killed, was about thirty- seven years old
and married. He was a farmer, being a
tenant on a farm of the city. He
leaves a wife and five north small children,
