FOR HUMANITY.
GAVE HIS LIFE
A Monument in Honor of Elijah
P. Lovejoy
Was Dedicated at Alton, Ill.,
This Afternoon.
TRIBUTE TO A MARTYR
Who Sixty Years Ago Lost
His Life
In Defense of the Cause of Human
Freedom.
Alton, Ill., Nov. 8.- The memory of
Elijah P. Lovejoy, the martyred friend
of freedom, is to be preserved in a superb
monument in the city cemetery of
Alton, and the dedication exercises
took place at 2 o'clock this afternoon.
On November 8, 60 years ago, Lovejoy
fell a victim of the fury of a proslavery
mob. The monument was finished three
months ago, but it was thought fitting
to wait for the anniversary of his death
to dedicate it.
Money for the erection of the shaft
was appropriated by the state legislature
, which voted$ 25,000 for the purpose
. An additional$ 5,000 was raised
by the people of Alton. Louis Mulgardt
and Robert P. Bringhurst, the sculptors
of St. Louis, wrought the plans and
the figures.
The shaft stands upon the highest
point of Alton's hills and towers 100
feet toward the sky.
The man thus honored by the people
of Illinois was the first martyr that
the state gave to the cause of liberty
and free speech, and the history of his
career is as touching as that of Crom-
well, Joan of Arc or anything that the
storied pages of the old world afford.
It has been said that Mrs. Harriet
Beecher Stowe, with her" Uncle Tom's
Cabin," started the agitation which resulted
in the war of the rebellion, but
in the Lovejoy tragedy was fired the
first shot leading up to that great conflict
, and more than all this, he was at
the same time the first man to maintain
and to vindicate with his life the
right of the American press to publish
honest opinion upon any chosen subject
without fear or reserve being amenable
only to the accepted laws of the
country.
Lovejoy was born at Albion, Kenebec
county, Maine, November 9, 1802. He
entered Wallville college at 21, and
graduated four years later with the
first honors of his class. He then came
west to St. Louis, and began teaching
in the public schools, but soon gave
that up to become the editor of the St.
Louis Times, fighting his first campaign
in behalf of the election of Henry Clay
to the presidency. About the close of
that campaign he joined the Presbyterian
church and soon afterward concluded
to enter the ministry. Accordingly
, in 1832 he began studying at Prince-
ton Theological seminary, being licensed
to preach the gospel one year
later.
He held two charges, at Newport, R.
I., and Spring church, N. Y., but although
he was a powerful preacher, he
was not destined to do his great work
in the pulpit. He again returned to St.
Louis and established the St. Louis Observer
, the first issue of which appeared
November 22, 1833. It was essentially
a religious newspaper, but the editor
could not keep down his intense love of
liberty and his convictions in regard to
the slavery question. It was impossible
for him not soon to become involved in
the discussion of the subject, and one
day he wrote an editorial setting forth
his opinions so strongly, that when it
appeared the community was thrown
at once into a furore of excitement. He
was away at a synodical meeting when
it was printed, and the owners of the
press and property he occupied were
compelled to hastily print a card explaining
it away, to prevent mob violence
. On his return he was confronted
with a paper signed by the most influential
papers, including the minister of
his church, setting forth the opinion
that slavery was divinely sanctioned
him to desist from his
and asking
course.
Lovejoy printed the paper with all
signatures and appended his reply. The
gist of the letter was that the editor
claimed the right to publish his honest
convictions on any subject, and answering
the plea of Bibilical justification
, he said:
" Make not slaves of others if you
would not be made slaves of yourselves
."
His statements were couched in the
most inoffensive language, but nevertheless
again stirred the ire of the citizens
.
Things went on in this way until his
presses were taken away by the owners
. but a few who sided with him
got them restored on condition that he
would come to Illinois, where his utterances
might be safely circulated. He
made the change, but the St. Louis people
then relented and called him back.
It happened, however, that a negro,
arrested for a crime, assaulted the officers
and killed one of them. A mob
soon after took him from the jail and
burned him at the stake. When the
trial of some of the ringleaders in this
act came up, the judge dismissed them
on the ground that the negro had been
incited to his act by reading the Observer
, and that there was no law to
punish them.
This was too much. Lovejoy published
an editorial reply so scathing in its
criticism that he knew violence must
follow, and at once shipped his plant to
Alton. He arrived here on Sunday, July
21, 1836. He left it in the warehouse
over night, and before daylight it was
destroyed by a mob. This at once
transferred the trouble to Illinois. A
meeting was held next night in the
Presbyterian church, where the editor
made an address, stating that he had
come to Alton in good faith to publish a
religious newspaper; that his object
evidently been misunderstood;
had
that he was not an abolitionist, but was
honestly opposed to slavery. He also
said that having removed from the seat
of slavery, he need not now continue to
fight it," that it would be cowardice to
fly from a slave state to attack its
methods from free soil."
He was sincere in this profession, and
thus mollified public opinion so that
funds were soon raised, and on Sep-
tember 8, 1836, he printed the first number
of the Alton Observer. The vigorous
power of editorial utterances
soon made the publication its famous, and
all went well until the slave question
came up again in earnest. Mr. Love-
joy was still smarting under the check
placed upon him, and determined once
for all to assert and maintain his constitutional
rights.
In June, 1837, he began agitating the
formation of a national anti- slavery so-
tiety, and on the following Fourth of
July he printed these burning reflections
upon the observance of the day:
" This day reproaches us for our sloth
and inactivity. It is the day of our nation's
birth. Even as we write comrades
are hurrying past our window, in
eager anticipation to the appointed
bower, to listen to the declaration that
" all men are created equal," to hear
the eloquent orator denounce in strains
of manly indignation the attempt of
England to lay a yoke on our fathers
which neither they nor their children
could bear. Alas, what bitter mockery
this is! We assemble to thank God for
our own freedom and eat with joy and
gladness of heart, while our feet are on
the necks of nearly 3,000,000 of our fellow
men. Not all our shouts of self-
congratulation can drown their groans;
even that very flag which waves over
our heads is formed from materials cultivated
by slaves on a soil moistened
with their blood drawn from them by
the whip of a Republican taskmaster."
No sooner was this read than the
men of the city held a meeting in the
market house, and with strange inconsistency
claimed the right to free
speech for themselves, while plotting to
deprive another of that same privilege.
A committee was appointed to request
Lovejoy to cease agitating slavery matters
. The latter, fearing to meet him
face to face, sent him a letter to this
effect. He replied by denying their
right to dictate to him what he should
discuss, and tendered them at the
same time the use of his paper to refute
his arguments if they were incorrect.
But the malcontents chose a more summary
course. On the night of August
25 a mob attacked the Observer office,
and after driving out the employes
completely demolished the press.
The act was boldly committed, but no
attempt at punishment followed. The
anti- slavery citizens, deeply incensed
as they were, had no choice but to submit
, and quietly sent for a new press.
This arrived in due time, but Lovejoy
was away at the time, and on the night
of its arrival it was taken from the
house and thrown into the Mississippi.
Then several public meetings were
held, the objects of which were to affect
a compromise, but it was a foregone
conclusion that the friends of liberty
must make all the concessions, and
it was also self- evident that Lovejoy
would never accede to this.
" Mr. Chairman," he said," what have
I to compromise? If freely to forgive
those who have greatly wronged me, if
to pray for their temporal and eternal
happiness, if still to wish for the prosperity
of your city and state, notwithstanding
the wrongs and indignities I
have suffered in them, if this be the
compromise intended, then I willingly
make them. But I do not admit that it
is the right of any body of men to say
whether I shall or shall not publish a
paper in this city.*** I plant myself
down on my unquestionable rights,
and the question to be decided is, whether
I shall be protected in those rights.
You may hang me, as the mob hanged
individuals at Vicksburg; you may burn
me, as they did McIntosh in St. Louis,
or you may tar and feather me and
throw me into the Mississippi, as you
have threatened to do, but you cannot
disgrace me; *** but, gentlemen, as
long as I am an American citizen, and
as long as American blood runs in these
veins, I shall hold myself at liberty to
speak, to write, to publish whatever I
please on any subject, being amenable
to the laws of my country for the same.
***
I have sworn eternal opposition
to slavery, and by the blessing of God
I will never go back."
Thus the brave reformer defied his
fate, and when the fourth press arrived
early in the morning of November 7,
by steamer, it was evident that a crisis
was at hand. It was stored in the stone
warehouse of Godfrey& Gilman. That
night a drunken mob demanded the
press. It being refused, an attack was
made on the building. The defenders
fired upon the mob, killing one and
wounding several men This cleared
the square for a time; but. soon the at-
tack was renewed. Another volley
caused a second retreat. The place
seemed deserted. The defenders supposed
they had been victorious; a few
of them, with Lovejoy, stepped outside,
and in to the trap laid. A dozen assassins
fired upon the editor from some
piles of cordwood, and with the words,
" My God, I am shot," he expired with
five bullets in his body.
After this the anti- slavery troubles
ceased in Alton. The Observer was
never revived and the incident passed
into history. But it seemed to have
left a blight upon the city. Up to that
time Alton promised to become the metropolis
of the Mississippi valley. It
was larger as it was also older than St.
Louis, and was the head of navigation
on the Mississippi. But with Lovejoy's
death a period of retrogression set in
that lasted 20 years, and it is only within
the past decade that the old and
beautiful bluff city has fully recovered
from the ban of that terrible experience
. The last surviving defender of
the last press, D. Burt Loomis, then a
clerk with Godfrey& Gilman, died last
autumn at his home in Minneapolis,
Minn. Benjamin Godfrey, senior member
of the firm of Godfrey& Gilman,
was then one of the best known business
, men in the west, and his name is
further endeared to posterity as the
founder of Monticello seminary.
For many years the martyr slept in
an unmarked grave, save for a pine
headboard bearing the initials" E. P.
L." The present city cemetery was
When it was
then an open common.
inclosed and incorporated the headboard
disappeared, and a street was
laid out over the grave. The keeper,
William Burdon, however, marked the
location with two little headstones, and
after several years Major Charles W.
Hunter had the remains removed to a
lot directly opposite his own, where they
now lie. William Johnson, a colored
man who buried Lovejoy the first time,
had charge also of his removal, and
said that only a few fragments of bone
and dust was found. The grave was
then marked by a broken tombstone, on
which was written in red chalk the
word" Lovejoy." A few years later
Thomas Dimmock of St. Louis, who
recognized the true value of the lesson
of Lovejoy's martyrdom as the defender
of a free American press, actuated
by a newspaper man's sense of
justice, placed upon the grave its present
mark- a scroll of Italian marble,
resting on a pedestal of New England
granite, and bearing this inscription:
HIC JACET
LOVEJOY.
JAM PACE SEPULTO.
Mr. Dimmock obtained from the heirs
of Major Hunter a deed to the lot, and
in August,, he transferred it into
( Continued 1885 on Sixth Page.)
