" f NEARER, MY GOD, TO THEE"
An Innovation
by Partisans of
Judge Lynch.
ED PRICE'S NIGHT OF TERROR
The Murer Cowered as He Heard the
Libi'y Tramp of the Mob,
of
BUT EY BURST INTO SACRED SONG.
Congress
r Mood May Have Changed Ere This
However- A Drenching Rain Could
195 Not Keep Away the Crowd.
A Village in a Fever.
Denton, Md., May 1.- Armed guards
patrolled the streets of this town at 11
o'clock last night to prevent any attempt
to lynch Ed E. Price, the young blacksmith
whose trial for the murder of
Sallie Dearborn on March 26, near the
village of Harmony, begun yesterday.
The prisoner had been confined in the
Baltimore city jail for safety and was
brought here under a strong police
guard from that city. A rumor that an
armed mob would attempt to lynch Price
during the night caused the authorities
to take every precaution. There were a
great many persons on the streets until
an early hour this morning and many
threats were uttered, but no attempt
was made to reach the prisoner. One
large crowd gathered near the jail and
sang," Nearer, My God, to Thee." Although
a drenching rain fell this morning
, a great crowd again stood about
the court room, and not one- fifth of the
number could gain admission thereto.
The excitement over the trial is intense
and every available tree, awning post
and hitching post in town had two or
three teams tied to it. The visitors
come from all sections of Caroline and
the adjoining counties in swarms.
Today's testimony was very damaging
to Price. Several links in the chain connecting
him with the murder were welded
, and Detective George Seibold, who
arrested Price, testified that the latter
confessed the murder, but denied that
he had assaulted the girl before killing
her. Dr. Joseph C. Clarke corroborated
Dr. Duhaway's testimony to the effect
that the girl had been criminally assaulted
by the murderer. The feeling
against Price is very bitter and much
uneasiness is exhibited by the townspeople
. They dread mob violence. It is
certain that if Sheriff Berry relaxes his
vigilance to any appreciable extent the
effort will be made to lynch Price
night. to-
