A DETERMINED. MOB.
They Were Dissuaded From Lynching a Brute
by Promise of a Speedy Trial- More
a Trouble Feared.
Savannah, Ga., Nov. 26.- A special to
the Morning News from Gibson, Ga.,
says:
The little town of Gibson and vicinity
is stirred from center to circumference.
The negro, Balam Hancock, who is confined
in jail here charged with the offense
of rape upon the person of Bessie
Shelton, and who was reported to have
been lynched, is still in the hands of the
officers of the law. His victim first reported
that her assailant failed to accomplish
his design, but on yesterday she
admitted that he outraged her in a most
brutal manner, and it was only by a
hair's breadth that he escaped Judge
Lynch last night. About 100 angry
armed men assembled at the scene of the
crime, a swamp about one mile from
town, last night at 9 o'clock, where they
were to remain until 11 o'clock, when
they would enter the town, break down
the jail door, take the prisoner out
and swing him to a limb just over the
spot where the outrage was perpetrated
and riddle the body with bullets. Fortunately
, however, the people of Gibson
got news of the anticipated violence, and
a posse consisting of the most prominent
and influential citizens of the town hastened
to the infuriated assembly and succeeded
, after a long and earnest plea in
favor of law and order, in dissuading
them from carrying out their intentions.
They promised and assured the mob
that Judge Seaborn would be urged to
order an extra term of court and try the
accused this week. They positively declared
if the negro was not tried during
the week he would be lynched. Judge
Seaborn was communicated with and
said he would look after the matter as
soon as possible. This did not appease
the wrath of the mob, and it is feared
that the lynching of the rapist will be
attempted tonight.
Sheriff Bradley is determined that the
law shall be vindicated and is guarding
the jail tonight with a determined posse.
The situation is a serious one and there
may be a battle in Gibson before morning
. The negro, a big burly fellow, says
he is innocent, but that he knows he will
be killed.
News has reached here that the negroes
throughout the county are organizing
and are arming themselves preparatory
to making an attack on the jail, for the
purpose of liberating Hancock.
Sheriff Bradley is growing more determined
, and is increasing his posse of deputies
He says that the negro shall not
be mobbed. or liberated.
