NEGRO BURNED AT THE STAKE
BY FRENZIED MOB AT CORSICANA
Shivering Wretch Confessed to His Awful Crime and Told Horrible
Story of Butchery of Mrs. Younger Before Her
Children- His Immense Crowd Witnessed Execution.
Corsicana, March 13.- John Henderson,
the negro who brutally outraged and
murdered Mrs. Conway Younger, was
burned at the stake by a mob in the
court house yard shortly before noon to
day in the presence of four thousand people
. Henderson was arrested several days
ago and placed in jail at Waco. Later the
negro was spirited away to Hillsboro
Last night the officers, fearing mob violence
, quietly arranged to take their prisoner
to Fort Worth, and at 9 o'clock they
boarded a train. At Itasca. a dozen citizens
from Corsicana entered the car
where the officers and their prisoner were
seated and with drawn. revolvers demanded
that the negro be turned over to
them. After some parleying the mob got
the prisoner and in a short while they
were on their way overland to Corsicana
Henderson reached here at an early
hours this morning, and when he learned
that he was to be executed by the mob
made a full confession. He told how
Mrs. Younger had bravely resisted the assault
and in his frenzy he butchered her
before the eyes of her little girl. In the
meantime runners were sent to all parts
of Navarro County to notify the people
that Henderson had been brought to the
scene of his crime and that he would be
executed during the day.
Thousands of people poured into the
city, and at 10:30 o'clock the streets were
swarming with a surging mass.
It was given out that the negro would
be burned alive at 2 o'clock, but a rumor
became current that a sheriff's posse was
being organized to rescue the prisoner,
and the changed its plans and announced
mob that the execution would take
place immediately. A railroad rall was
sunk into the ground in the middle of
the courthouse yard and the shivering
wretch, heavily chained, was brought
forward, followed by a clamorous crowd
of 4000 people. The negro was securely
chained to the fron stake and heaps of
wood were piled about him. Then quantities
of kerosene were poured on the
doomed man.
Just as the torches were being applied
Conway Younger, the husband of his vic
jumped at him and attempted to
tim,
cut his throat with a large knife, but
only slashed the chained negro's face.
Henderson's struggles were fearful and
his screams were drowned by the yells
of the frenzied mob. After ten minutes
in the roaring flames Henderson's head
dropped forward, his struggles ceased
and he was to all appearances dead.
When the frightful tragedy was over,
Lee French, a white man, whose wife was
outraged and murdered near Corticana.
by Andrew Norris, a negro nov in jail
at Dallas for safekeeping, climbed a tree
and addressed the assembled thousands,
asking them to help him get the murderer
and burn him. The crowd yelled in response
that they would do it. In a few
minutes, however, the crowd dispersed,
and Corsicana was normally quiet.
At 1 o'clock today Justice H. C. Roberts
held an inquest over the remains of Her
derson and gave the following verdict:
" I find that the deceased came to his
just death at the hands of the incensed
and outraged feelings of the best people
in the United States, the citizens of Na
varro and adjoining countles. The evidence
as well as the confession of guilt
by deceased show that his punishment
was fully merited and commendable.
" Given under my hand and seal of
office at Corsicana, Texas, this, the 13th
day of March, A. D., 1901.
" H. C. ROBERTS,
" Justice of the Peace, Precinct No. 1, Na
County, Texas; and Acting Cor
varro oner."
