ANOTHER FALLACY.
From the Jackson
( Miss.) Evening
News.
The lynching at Carrollton is a most
deplorable and humiliating affair. It is
difficult to know how to meet these dreadful
displays of lawlessness and cruelty.
It is a sad fact that a large part of the
communities have lost confidence in the
actions of the courts- not that they have
lost confidence in the judges, but they
think trickery prevails by which criminals
are set free.- Exchange.
This is all exceedingly fallaciou and
misleading, and while it is evidently not
the intention of our contemporary to furnish
an argument for the advocates of
mob law, this is but a repetition of the
old and threadbare excuse that lynchers.
make for taking the law into their own
hands and usurping the functions of the
courts.
There is no use whatever in discussing
any question upon incorrect premises, or
upon a false assumption of the facts, the
object is worthy of a careful and candid
statement and examination.
The class of criminals that are lynched
by the mob in this State, with a few rare
exceptions, are negroes who are charged
with some crime against a white person.
Negroes are not lynched for crimes
against individuals of their own race, and
all issues between negroes are permitted
by the mob to be settled in the courts.
It is not true that negroes who commit
crimes against white people are set free
through trickery by the courts. On the
contrary, it is a well known fact that
will be attested by every
lawyer, as well as by every experienced intelligent
and well informed person in the State
that a negro who is proved guilty of a
crime against a white person never es
conviction in the courts. The
capes
juries stand ready to convict if the evidence
warrants conviction, and invariably
convict in all such cases,
Nothing can be more misleading there
fore than the suggestion that the mob.
supplements some deficiency in the machinery
of the law, for the mob invariably
and uniformly hangs the only class of
criminals who are always convicted and
punished promptly by the courts of the
State.
On the other hand it is interesting and
instructive to observe the significant fact
that the mob never touches the only class
of criminals that escape the clutches of
the law, and that are set free by the
verdict of the juries who are called upon
to try them.
Men of influence, social or personal, or
of popularity, or of pecuniary means sufficient
to fee a criminal lawyer, are the
only class of criminals who escape punishment
in the courts of the State. And
singular the
as it from
may appear,
arguments of the advocates of mob law it
never occurs to the mob to lynch these
red- handed offenders against the law.
Every community in the State has its
homicide, who would shoot down a fellow
being for a slight affront without
compunctions of conscience. But.
any
he enjoys an immunity not only from the
law and the courts, but from the mob as
well.
A strange and extraordinary inconsistency
is the spectacle of a virtuously in-:
dignant mob lynching the class of criminals
who are certain to be convicted by
the courts, and granting immunity to
that large class of homicides who escape
the meshes of the law, and whose bloody
crimes go unpunished.
The argument for the mob is all non
sense and rubbish. It ought not to impose
upon anybody's incredulity ..
Governor Jones of Alabama, in his re
cent addres to the constitutional convention
now in session in that state, told
the bed- rock truth that lies at the bottom
of the case, when he said that the
class of people who are the victims of
the mob are lynched, not because they
committed a crime, but for the reason
that the crime they committed is against
a white person.
Public sentiment that now sustains the
mob will not improve until the subject
is stripped of all its fallacies and sophistries
and considered on its facts from the
true standpoint of morality and Christian
civilization.
There could be no greater delusion
otherwise well meaning people impose up
on themselves, than that the mob is en
gaged in punishing criminals who would
escape punishment in the courts.
There is no ineffeciency in the administration
of the criminal law of the state
against the class of people who are
lynched by the mobs.
When the people of the state admit,
candidly, that this class of criminals are
lynched, not because there is the least
probability of their escaping justice at
the hands of the law, but for the simple
reason that the mob, chooses to take the
law in its own hands, and usurp the fune
tions of the courts, there will be an im
in public sentiment on this
subject provement ..
