Mob Hangs and Burns
Negro At Vicksburg
For Attack On Girl
Sheriff and 12 Deputies Powerless to Prevent Lynching.
Several Persons Wounded When Volley Is Fired
Into Body of Mob's Victim
By Associated Press
Vicksburg, Miss., May 14- A mob of between 800 and 1000 persons
broke into the county jail here tonight, overpowered Sheriff Frank Scott
and 12 deputies, took Lloyd Clay, 24, negro, from his cell, marched him to
the heart of the city and hanged him with a rope to the limb of an elm tree,
at the same time placing a bonfire him, after saturating his head with
oil. under
The negro died while a fusillade of
shots were being fired into his body.
M. G. Cockrill, a deputy, was internally
injured with a railroad iron the mob
had used to batter down the doors of
the jail.
Clay was arrested early today by
Sheriff Scott on charges of having assaulted
a white girl at the home of a
prominent citizen here It was alleged
that he entered the girl's room early
this morning. She screamed, it was
said, whereat the negro ran, the girl
tearing a piece of cloth from his coat.
This was used to give a pair of blood-
hounds a clue, and the dogs trailed Clay
to the Alabama and Vicksburg railway
station here. He was taken to jail,
where the young woman was asked to
identify him. She told the authorities
she was not positive Clay was the
negro. The girl, it was said, was not
injured.
BREAK JAIL DOORS
Tonight a crowd assembled around
the jail Sheriff Scott remonstrated with
them, and while addressing the crowd
railroad iron, in the hands of the
a mob, was brought into play. The mob
broke down three sets of steel doors,
finally forcing their way to Clay's cell.
When they appeared, Clay is quoted as
saying:
" Give me a minute and I'll tell you
who the other negro-"
But his words were choked off and
the mob carried him to the street, where
he was placed on an automobile truck
and taken to the scene where the lynch.
ing occurred.
The elm tree where the lynching took
place is near the home where the alleged
assault occurred. A rope was
fastened around the negro's neck and
cil applied to his head. Clay, it is said,
tried to lift himself up by the rope.
and his hands were tied. As he was
swung from the ground a match was
applied to his head and a bonfire
fusillade of
started under his feet A
shots into the body followed. Charles
Lancaster, an onlooker, was shot
through the head and is it believed he
is fatally wounded. Bennie Stafford, another
onlooker, was shot through the
arm.
Clay's body was cut down about 10
o'clock tonight and prepared for burial.
Authorities tonight said the lynching
is the culmination of feeling which has
resulted from a series of attempts by
negroes Vicksburg and vicinity to
attack white in women and girls.
