Montgomery, July 5 .-( Special.)- Ig-
of
norance- the lack of knowledge
American laws and society- is indirectly
responsible for the state's most
sensational case, the Foukal lynching
at Bay Minette on June 22.
Representatives of the state, who
have been able to arrest all members
of the masked mob that lynched Fou-
kal, whose knowledge also was limited
because of his birth and residence in
a foreign land, have discovered a most
pitiful condition existing in a small
beat in Baldwin county, which was the
home of the majority of the me
charged with the killing of Foukal.
The state's attorneys have found that
a majority of the members of the mob
were either fishermen or truck gardeners
and knew little of the outside
world, always being content to pass
away the days in their small boats on
Mobile bay, disposing of their catch
for small sums of money.
As the details of the case develop,
evidence shows that many of the seif-
confessed lynchers did not realize the
seriousness of their plans previous to
the actual commission of the deed.
There is developing many pathetic incidents
, but at the same time the
state's representative contend stronger
evidence is fast developing.
Baldwin county's Barnwell beat,
where the men lived, is spoken of as
being similar in many respects to Jef-
ferson county's" Bloody Beat 22." In
the latter beat, however, several murders
were committed before the ringleaders
were caught and the organization
was broken up.
Many members of the mob are
to have been brought up under said the
belief that there was no justice in the
courts and this belief caused them to
fear Frank Foukal, slayer of a man
named Bishop, would gain his liberty
on bond and eventually gain complete
exoneration. Fear of this miscarriage
of justice preyed on their minds to the
extent they perfected their plans to
kill the prinoner as he slept in jail.
This is verified by the confession of
one of the alleged stayers- a brother
of the man Foukal killed on June 1.
His confession said he had understood
the man's( Foukal's) attorney would
be able soon to get him out on bond
NO EFFORT TO ESCAPE
Proof that the men believed
they
would never be caught, according to
Horace Wilkinson, is evidenced in the
several details that have been picked
up at Fairhope and Bay Minette. The
men had made absolutely no plans for
the future, in the way of evading arrest
. They went back to their daily
routine of fishing and gardening when
the crime was committed. Mr. Wilkin-
son notes in the case that one man,
whose name is withheld, desired to
go before a judge, confess guilt, and
accept a fine for his part in the lynching
. He desired to get back to his
daily routine of fishing. This, according
to the state's representatives, best
illustrates the ignorance of many
members of the mob.
That the Bishops, the best educated
of all those arrested in the case, were
able to inveigle others of less intelligence
, persuading them to become
parties to the crime, is the statement
of Mr. Wilkinson. It is the
upon
shoulders of the Bishops the state will
place the biggest burden, although
Mr. Wilkinson, special assistant a.
torney general, has indicated he will
ask for the death sentence for all
members of the mob, including all who
have confessed to the crime.
MORE POWER NEEDED
Other arrests are expected before
the grand jury convenes on Monday.
All persons who lent their aid in the
way of guns, ammunition and advice
in favor of the lynching, are yet to
be taken into custody. There are
other sensational details to be worked
out by the officers.
Confessions show that 21 men, the
majority being related to the man
killed by Foukal, first met to discuss
the lynching, and, in fact, carry out
the job, on the Tuesday previous to
June 22, when the man was killed.
They got several miles in automobiles,
two of which broke down, and the
trip was postponed.
In the automobile leading was a
rope, it then being the intention of
the mob to hang Foukal In the darkness
of the night the men. stopped their
cars and took a vote to ascertain
whether Foukal would be hanged or
shot. The latter method obtained the
majority of the 21 votes. It was agreed
that the latter method was more humane
; that the job would be completed
quicker, thus eliminating some
of the danger of being arrested.
On the second trip no rope was car-
ied. Only 12 of the original 21 became
members of the second
party.
They carried out their agreement and
čired several bullets into the body of
Foukal as he lay on his bunk in the
jail. In a confession on Friday, Louis
Bishop admitted he fired the first
shot, after Sim Andrews, former
leputy sheriff of Baldwin county, had
taken the keys from Sheriff Richerson,
who since has resigned.
Ira Underwood, who admits he drove
he automobile that contained the mob
members, is only 19 years of age. His
brother, Harvey, also held in connection
with the murder, is not yet 21
years of age Their father also is in
jail at Birmingham..
