Jackson, Miss., July 5 .-( Special.)- Since
the citizens of Ellisville lynched and
burned the carcass of the negro
who
kept a respectable white girl in
the
woods all night, near the home of her
mother, where he repeatedly outraged
her, Governor Bilbo has received a number
of the vilest letters imaginable, purporting
to have been written by negroes
of the north and west- one of them having
threatened to kill the governor on
sight, and declaring his intention
of
coming to Jackson in a few days for that
Their
purpose that
idea,
to be
. seems
the governor of the state should and
could have prevented the lynching, but
that he did not try, wherefore, the writers
of the cowardly letters fling a few
fits and malign all the people of the
state in language that cannot be printed.
Of course, Governor Bilbo pays no attention
to letters from such niggers, but
he has turned them over to the post-
office department, and they are now in
the hands of some of the ablest detectives
in the service of the government.
The people of Mississippi would like the
best in the world to get hold of one or
all of these hyenas in black form. What
the Ellisville brute got would not be a
circumstance to what one of these toads
would receive at the hands of decent
Mississippians.
Replying to a query from the New York
World as to public sentiment in Missis-
sippi on lynchings, Governor Bilbo said:
" Mob violence is deplored all
by
thoughtful citizens, and, as governor of
the state, I have done everything in my
power to enforce the law in an orderly
way. However, it is practically impossible
, without great loss of life, especial-
ly at the present time, to prevent lynching
of negro rapists when the crime is
committed against the white women of
the south.
" There is considerable feeling and bitter
resentment on the part of the white
people of the south, brought about by
the attempt of the negro race to seek
social and political equality. This desire
on the part of the negro seems to have
been increased since the world war by
the social reception of and familiarity
with the negro soldiers by a certain class
of white women in France. Fuel is add-
.ed to the flames by the negro propaganda
through the northern negro press.
Certain negro newspapers have been circulated
through the south urging that
the only solution of the race question
is intermarriage of the races. The attempted
interference of certain negro
associations of the north in the adjustment
of the race question in the south
is resented by the southern white man,
and, in my judgment, is doing more
harm than good.
" This is strictly a white man's country
, with a white man's civilization and
any dream on the part of the negro race
to share social and political equality will
be shattered in the end. If the northern
negro lover wants to stop negro lynching
in the south, they must first get
the right conception of the proper relation
that must necessarily exist
the races, and teach and train the between negro
along these lines, and in this way remove
the cause of lynchings.
" The better class of whites and blacks
of the south understand each other, and
i let alone they will be able to solve
their own problems, and will live
Eether on proper and peaceful terms to-."
