MOB OF MERCY AT JOPLIN AND
NEGRO LYNCHED, HOUSES BURNED
Despite Pleadings of City Officials
Mob Attacks Negro District of the
City, Smashing Windows, Firing
Houses and Driving Every Negro
Out of Town.
LAW ABIDING CROWD TRIED TO PREVENT
HANGING AND TUG OF WAR RESULTED
To Appease Wrath of the Rioters a Prisoner Was Released on
Demand But This Had No Effect Toward Restoring Order.
Negro Prisoner Was to Have Shot Policeman
While Officer Was Supposed Trying to Make an Arrest.
OPLIN, MO., April 15.- Despite the
J pleading of City Attorney P. H.
Decker and the efforts of law-
abiding citizens, who were overcome in
a tug- of- war over the body of the victim
, a mob tonight hanged a negro tramp
to a telegraph pole, after forcibly taking
him from jail on the suspicion that he
might be the man that last night shot to
death Policeman Leslie while the officer
was trying to arrest some negroes in the
Kansas City Southern rallroad yards.
The lynching of the negro served only
temporarily to satisfy the indignation of
the mob, and later tonight hundreds of
men again assembled and rioted through
the negro district, burning houses, stoning
negroes, and finally driving every negro
from Joplin. The police were powerless
.
The negro who was lynched was found
today in a slaughter house east of Jop-
lin by Lee Fullerton. He was armed with
a rifle. Fullerton slipped into the structure
unobserved and crept up behind the
negro. Fullerton sprang at the man and
threw him down. The captor held a knife
at the captive's throat until the negro
surrendered the rifle. Pointing the rifle
at the prisoner, Fullerton marched him to
jail, which was surrounded by hundreds
of people.
City Attorney Pleads for Order.
City Attorney P. H. Decker mounted
the jail steps and na for law
and order. This did not appease the mob,
and a short time after Decker's speech
the mob started to batter down a section
of the jail wall. Futile efforts were made
to prevent the entrance of the mob, but
within fifteen minutes they had gained
entrance into the jail and secured the
trembling negro. As he was dragged forth
City Attorney Decker again urged that
the negro be given a trial: For half an
hour he talked and the mob listened to
him with the negro in their custody. Some
of the transgressors repented and began
to disperse. Suddenly a rush was made
for the spot where the negro was held
and he was dragged two blocks from the
jail. A rope was fastened around his neck.
After the rope had been thrown over the
crossbar of a telegraph pole a score of
attempted to pull the negro from the
men ground. As many more seized the negro
and tried to prevent his being hanged.
For some moments it was a tug- of- war,
but reinforcements on the free end of
the rope proved the stronger, and the
negro, despite his protestations of innocence
, was finally swung Into the air and
strangled to death, while shouts went up
from the mob. The name of the negro was
not known. He was a stranger in Joplin.
Hickory Bill Set Free.
The first act of the mob after hanging
the negro was to demand the release
from jail of a local character known
as" Hickory Bill," who was under arrest
on the charge of assaulting a negro.
In the hope that this would appease the
mob, the prisoner was set free.
But the mob did not disperse. Instead,
a rush was made through Main street,
and every negro was driven to the northern
part of Joplin, where the colored pop-.
ulation lives. Then the mob charged
down on the quarter. Stones were thrown,
doors and windows of negro houses were
broken in, and finally several houses were
fired. The fire department responded but
many of the houses were burned to the
ground. The mob made endeavors to prevent
the fire department from extinguishing
the flames and were partially successful
.
All of the officers of the city, township
and county were called out, but the mob
swept them aside and proceeded with
the rioting.
Mayor's Efforts Futile.
Mayor Trigg ran from corner to corner
and mounting boxes made earnest
appeals to the mob to cease, but cheering
the mayor vociferously the mob swept
on, and the depredations continued. The
saloons were hurriedly closed by the
mayor. After the hundreds of frenzied
men composing the mob had vented their
wrath in the north end of the city, they
rushed to the southern end where a
number of negroes lived. Their houses
were vacant and not a negro could be
found. Three more houses were fired and
two were burned.
All efforts to reason with the rioters
were futile. The streets are thronged and
at midnight the whole city is in an
uproar. So far as is known, no fatalities.
have occurred, although many persons
received minor injuries.
Negro's Name Was Thomas Gilyard.
Carthage, Mo .. April 15.- The negro
lynched in Joplin tonight was Thomas
Gilyard, 20 years of age. It is said he
was shot by Policeman Leslie during
the fight last night. Fearly today Sheriff
Owen hurried off to the county jail at
Carthage Dan Bullard, a negro who was
with Gilyard just before the policeman
was killed. Tonight Bullard was spirited
from Carthage for fear of attack
away on the county jail.
Mob runs riot in Joplin, Mo.
