JAIL SURROUNDED
BY MILITARY MEN
Birmingham Troops Take Charge
at Huntsville.
ONE MAN HAS BEEN ARRESTED
Captain Brown Has Situation Well In
Hand and No Immediate Violence
Anticipated- Will Re
Is main Several Days.
BY FRANK H. BELL.
Huntsville, September 15 .-( Special.)- A
provisional company composed of forty
men from the Birmingham Rifles and
twenty- three from the Jefferson Volunteers
commanded by Captain Lucian C
Brown of the former company, arrived
here this afternoon at 5 o'clock on a special
train from Birmingham. The company
was sent to protect prisoners who
are being arrested on indictments charging
them with murder in connection with
the lynching of Horace Maples, a negro,
last Thursday night.
The company found the city quiet and
acting on orders from Governor Cun-
ningham, Captain Brown has assumed
command of the situation and has taken
every precaution to prevent any repetition
of the trouble of a week ago.
The company was ordered here at the
request of Judge Paul Speake of the
circuit court. In his message to Governor
Cunningham he stated that there were
rumors of a rescue of any men who
might be arrested in connection with
lynching. the
Ben Hill Is Arrested,
Ben Hill, an employe of one of the cotton
mills, has been arrested and placed
in jail on a charge of murder, the warrant
having been sworn out by Solicitor
Erle Pettus on evidence before the grand
jury. There was talk tonight of friends
of the prisoner making some effort to
rescue him, but on the arrival of the
Birmingham company the talk ceased to
a large extent and tonight the city is as
quiet as could be desired.
Hill was arraigned this afternoon before
Judge Speake but was returned to
jail without entering his plea of" not
guilty" which he says he will make.
No attorneys could be found to defend
him but he will be again arraigned tomorrow
.
Hill is only one of the ten men against
whom true bills have been found, and
the sheriff will arrest the remainder of
them in the morning. He has warrants in
hand, and their service was only delayed
because of inability to find the
parties. It is said here that several men
who were prominent in the mob of last
Thursday night have left the city, and
that others are in hiding. The true bills
against these men were found at a
special session of grand jury, and
other bills are expected the.
Actuated by Curiosity ..
Tonight several crowds gathered on the
streets in the neighborhood of the jail,
but they were actuated more by curiosity
than by any desire to liberate the prisoner
.
Captain Brown at once notified them
in a quiet manner that they would not
be allowed to congregate, and dispersed
them before more than twenty could collect
at a time. Pickets have been thrown
out all around the jail, and the soldiers
are all supplied wtih ball and multi- ball
cartridges. No one is allowed to come
within less than a block of the Madison
county jail, where the prisoner is confined
, and the scene of last Thursday's
mob violence.
The jail was badly damaged by fire
at that time, but the condition is such
that the prisoners can live in it without
trouble. The company is camped around
the jail, and it is expected that it will
be several days, probably a week, before
they can leave. The troops are to
prevent any mob violence and to keep
in safety the prisoners who are arrested
or may be arrested.
In Command of Situation.
Judge Speake tonight gave Captain
Brown an official order placing him in
command of the situation and instructing
him to take every step necessary to prevent
any attempt at rescue. He instructs
Captain Brown to use his own
discretion in carrying out the orders of
himself and also those of Governor Cun-
ningham. The order of Judge Speake is
similar to that of Governor Cunningham
with the exception that it is written and
the governor's was oral.
Later tonight several small crowds
gathered in the city several blocks from
the county jail, and were discussing the
arrival of the company and the arrests.
Captain Brown sent out a patrol to prevent
any more such gatherings, and the
patrol will be out as long as there are
any people on the streets.
While not officially confirmed, it is understood
that the indictments of the
grand jury include two or three men
who are rather prominent in the city, or
the surrounding suburbs. The others are
for men less prominent. If there is any
trouble or attempt to rescue prisoners.
It is hardly expected that there will be
until some of the prominent men are arrested
.
Guns and Cartridges Seized.
All the guns and cartridges of the local
military company, which is Company F
of the Third regiment, has been seized
by Captain Brown and removed to the
jail, where they are kept under guard.
This was done to prevent any possibility
of the crowd getting hold of them in
case of a riot.
Captain Brown announced tonight that
he would not hesitate to give the order
to fire if there was any attempt to rescue
the prisoners, and that no one must even
attempt to run the sentry lines. The
conduct of the soldiers on the trip has
been excellent, and so far not a single
case of disorder is reported. The boys
seem anxious to keep down any trouble,
but even more determined to do everything
in their power to prevent any repetition
of the Statesboro affair.
It has been announced here that there
are no indictments by the grand jury
against Sheriff Rodgers or Mayor Smith
in connection with the riot. The report
became current that such action had been
taken because the grand jury asked for
instructions as to how to ir.stitute impeachment
proceedings against them if
found necessary.
The trip to Huntsville was made
the regular Louisville and Nashville train over
