GRAND JURY RECOMMENDS IMPEACHMENT
SHERIFF RODGERS, CHIEF OF POLICE
OF OVERTON AND MAYOR THOMAS W. SMITH
Huntsville, September 19 .-( Special.)-
The grand jury tonight found its final
report, recommending that Sheriff Rod-
gers Mayor Smith and Chief of Police
,
Overton be impeached in connection with
the lynching of Horace Maples and the
burning of Madison county jail on the
night of September 7. Seven additional
indictments were returned, and the warrants
will be served today. The report of
the grand jury is caustic and is a severe
three officials. The
arraignment of the
report in full is as follows:
The Grand Jury Reports.
" The state of Alabama, Madison county
, circuit court, August term, 1904.
To His Honor. Paul Speake, Presiding
Judge:
' Sir: We, the grand jury organized on
the ninth day of September, 1904, to inquire
into and investigate the offenses
and violations of the law growing out of
the assault upon the county jail and the
lynching of Horace Maples on the seventh
day of September, 1904, beg leave to
submit the following as our final report
" Realizing the gravity of the work we
were called and sworn to perform, we
have assumed our task with the full
consciousness of its importance to this
and surrounding states, to this and to
succeeding generations. Appreciating
' enormity of the responsibilty placed upon the
CAPT W. J. VAIDEN
Of Uniontown, Member Court of
Inquiry.
Also Recommends That Entire
Police Force of Huntsville
Be Reorganized
CAUSTIC CRITICISM OF MEN
WHO LET THE MOB RULE
Bold Stand Taken Group of Madi
son County Citizens Who Desire
to See the Law
Supreme. Reign
Us. we have reverently each norting
opened our deliberation with prayer, placing
our trust for deliverance from evil
and guance in the faithful and impartial
di arge of our duty in the hands
of th shest and wisest Judge.
Examines Many Witnesses.
" We have examined a large number of
witnesses and have made diligent inquiry
to arrive at the facts in reference to the
lawlessness and violence which has disgraced
the name of eur county and
brought reprcach upon the state. On the
evening of September 6, 1904, E. D. Wal-
drop was murdered in a most atrocious
manner. Robbery was the apparent motive
. Circumstances pointed to Horace
Maples, a negro, as the guilty party. He
was arrested the next morning and placed
in jail. A crowd collected on the streets
near the jail immediately after his confinement
and there was considerable talk
of mob violence. The matter was brought
to the attention of your honor, court he-
ing in session, a special grand jury was
crganized and within a few hours Horace
Maples was indicted for murder in the
first degree.
" Notwithstanding this fact that the machinery
of the courts had been set in motion
and a speedy trial was assured, the
crowd in the vicinity of the jail increased
and the threatening talk did not abate.
Wisely Closed the Saloons.
" In the meantime your honor had wisely
closed the saloons and hardware stores
and ordered out the local militia. With
some fifteen men or more at his command
and an abundance of ball cartridges
. Capt. R. L. Hay, commanding
Company. posted sentinels guarding the
various approaches of the jail. It appears
that these sentinels were ordered to keep
back the crowd, but were not ordered to
load or to fire. Nor were they given any
more specific instructions at this time.
" About 3 p. m. the lines were rushed
and some of the guards disarmed. The
sheriff, who had recently returned from
supper, went into the jail with the military
company. It appears that some fifteen
officers and several privates failed
to reach the jail but some fifteen men got
inside with extra guns and ammunition,
and not until then were they ordered to
load.
No effort was made to hold the lower
floor", but the garrison hastened to take
a somerat prote position the head
of the stairs. The mob took possession
of the lower floor. Doors were battered
down, windows smashed, a fire kindled
in the lobby of the jai in full view of
the sheriff and militia yet no order was
given to fire.
" Later on another fire was started in
a room not commanded by the guns of
the garrison from their position unless
they could have shot steel bullets through
the floor of the room above, or through
a steel door, which was not attempted.
No Orders to Fire.
" Missils were thrown and shots fired
by the mob, and the jail was burning,
yet the soldiers received no order to
fire. It is but just to say that there
were some brave boys in the company
who would have welcomed the order to
fire. The mayor of Huntsville and the
police officers were passive and gave no
assistance, knowing the appeals of the
sheriff for aid, and notwithstanding the
mayor had previously agreed to place
the entire police force at the disposition
of the sheriff.
" The regular deputies of the sheriff,
except W. Ward, were not much in evi-
dence. Deputy Ward went to the sheriff
and back on several occasions during the
siege, and was sent for the police and
on other missions, but was never ordered
to summons other deputies to relieve the
situation, nor does it appear that the
sheriff at any time summoned any special
deputies or any posse to his aid, knowing
his deputies and police officers, D. D.
Overton and J. L. Overton, had free ac-
Icess to him unmolested by the mob.
" Finally, after an hour or so, as might
have been foreseen, the garrison became
untenable. from smoke
and heat, the
sheriff laid down the keys and walked
out, followed by the militia. It appears
that about this time Jailor Giles released
the prisoner, who jumped out of the sec-,
ond story window and was caught by the
mob and hanged soon after in the court
house yard.
" The fire in the jail was subsequently
extinguished after much wanton damage
to the county property and danger
and suffering inflicted upon the
prisoners. helpless
Crisis Is Reached.
" The issue presented to us is clear cut.
We have reached a crisis. The question
is whether we shall be ruled by a mob,
or by the law. Whether we shall have
anarchy or government. Whether an
armed and unreasoning rabble whose
worst passions have been inflamed and
prejudice aroused shall be permitted to
trample our statutes under foot, and openly
commit the most flagrant and violent
crimes merely because they happen to
have the brute force at their command,
or whether we shall say The law is supreme
. It is the only safeguard of our
property, our liberty and our lives.
" It shall be upheld, respected and enforced
. If we cannot rise to the emergency
that now confronts us, if we cannot
eradicate the spirit of anarchy from
among us; if we cannot curb the lawless
element of our country, then we have
failed in the highest purpose of government
, our boasted institutions are but
delusion and a myth.
" Realizing that this is a supreme moment
in our history, that we must either
take a stand for the law today, or surrender
to the mob and to the anarchists
for all time; that our actions shall make
for good or evil in future generations,
forgetting our personal friendship and
affiliation and with malice towards none,
but acting only as sworn officers of the
state of Alabama. we, the grand jury
of Madison county, state of Alabama,
find that .A. D. Rodgers, sheriff of said
county, was guilty of willful neglect of
duty, or incompetency in this, that:
Charges Against Sheriff.
" 1. He allowed or did not prevent the
lynching of Horace Maples on the seventh
day of September, A. D. 1904, said
county.
2. He falled to take proper or necessary
precautions to defend Horace Maples
, a prisoner in his custody on the
seventh day of September, 1904.
3. He allowed a mob, riot, tumult or
unlawful assembly to collect and stay for
several hours. towit: for three hours in
the vicinity of county Jail where such
( Continued the on Second Page.)
