MUCH STUDY OF
HUNTSVILLE CASE
Lawyers Deeply Interested in
Judge Jones' Charge.
A BIG QUESTION RAISED
Those Who Agree With Judge Jones
Say His Charge Was Made in
the Best Interests of
the State.
In view of the recent widespread discussion
of the charge delivered to a federal
grand jury at Huntsville by Judge
Thomas G. Jones, in which he held that
the mob at that place had violated the
thirteenth amendment to the constitution,
and were liable to indictment by a grand
jury in the United States court, many
lawyers have given the question much
study but as yet there is considerable
difference of opinion as to the correctness
of the rather unique position.
For fear that Judge Jones might be
put in a false light before the people of
his state some of his friends say that
he is eminently correct in his opinion,
and that he delivered the charge for the
welfare of the state. They say that he
regrets that he is unable, on account of
his judicial position, to answer some of
the attacks on him made in political
speeches.
Case of Horace Maples.
It will be remembered that Judge Jones
took the position that Horace Maples, a
negro, was lynched by a mob of white
men, and calls attention to the fact that
if he had been a white man, it is likely
that the law would have been allowed to
take its course. If the mob lynched Maples
simply because he was a negro, it is argued
that the members thereof violated
the thirteenth amendment to the United
States constitution, and are therefore liable
to indictment by federal grand juries. In
other words, it is a novel idea of reaching
such crimes through the United States
courts, which have heretofore been
deemed practically Impossible.
Lawyers who agree with the position
taken by Judge Jones give their views
in substance as follows:
Substance of Views.
The case of a citizen being taken out
of the hands of the state, which is trying
to afford him due process of law, when
accused of crime, and putting him to
death to prevent his having the right,
differs in a constitutional sense and consequence
from any other act of mob violence
. The citizen had a right or immunity
under the constitution to have the
state afford him that protection, and
when men conspire to prevent the citizen
from being afforded that right they come
within section 5508 of the revised statutes
for depriving a citizen of the right secured
him by the constitution of the
United to States.
The kuklux, as many will recall, when
they started out were inspired by good
purposes, though effected illegally, but
they became plagues to the people and
bands of murderers. Finally in Harvey
vs. United States, 106, U. S., the supreme
court held the statute about going in
disguise on highways, etc., to be unconstitutional
, since it was so broad that it
covered assaults to deprive of rights dependent
purely on state laws, as well as
those derived directly from the constitutions
. They never so intermingled that
the courts could not separate them.
Supreme Court Reasons.
One of the reasons given by the supreme
court for holding that the statute was
not justified by the Thirteenth amendment
was that under it a" mob of whites
could be indicted for injury to a white
man" or" a mob of negroes for injury to
a negro," etc. That difficulty does not
arise in the Huntsville cases, nor was the
question presented in any of the cases,
whether hanging a man when the state
was trying to protect him, on accusation
of crime, to prevent him having the process
of law, fell within section 5508. The
supreme court was careful to state that
that was not the case they were deciding.
Every lawyer who has studied or knows
anything about the jurisprudence of the
United States knows that congress has
by no means exhausted its power to protect
the right of American citizens and
every Alabamian is made a citizen of the
United States as to matter or which the
constitution of the United States provides
. Some of the best judges and lawyers
in the United States have no doubt
that the supreme court will hold that the
present legislation section 5508, covers the
case of taking a man from the authorl-
ties and putting him to death to prevent
his having a trial, regardless of any
question of race- because it deprives him
of the enjoyment of an immunity- the
constitution confers upon him es a citizen
of the United States. Much interesting
information on this subject can be
by reading the supreme court de-
gotten cision in ex parte Virginia 100, U. S., 345.
