Four Men Are Arrested.
Springfield, Mo., April 16.- Four men are
now under arrest here charged with being
leaders in the mob that broke into the
county jail Saturday night and lynched
three negroes. One of the alleged mob
leaders is in jail and three have been
released on bond. Charles Cannefax and
O. N. Galfrey were the first men arrested
. Cannefax has been a poolroom-
proprietor, but is at present employed in
the St. Louis and San Francisco railroad
yards. Galfrey is a switchman for the
road. Both have been released on
same
bond. Dane Crane, son of D. D. Crane, a
well- known saddlery merchant, was the
third arrested. Crane moves in the best
society here. Oat Hall, the last man arrested
, is a police court character. Crane
was released on bail tonight. Hall is still
in jail. Cannefax went to Sheriff Horner
today and inquired how much damage
had been done by the mob on the sherff's
property. Cannefax was informed that
it would amount to$ 1000. He then said
a collection would be taken up to repair
the loss, but his offer was flatly refused
by Sheriff Horner.
The grand jury will meet tomorrow and
especially indict those who were in the
mob of lynchers.
Made No Secret of Participation.
Up to noon today men who had been
in the mob made no secret of it. They
stood upon the street corners and joked
each other about it, but when word came
that Governor Folk had offered$ 300 reward
for the conviction of any member
of the mob, and when Roscoe Patterson,
attorney, declared
prosecuting openely
that he intended to work for the arrest
and conviction of every man concerned
in the lynching, there was uneasiness. At
noon it became known that twenty- five
warrants, charging murder in the first
degree, were in the hands of the sheriff.
After the arrests the lynchers
alarmed and left the streets. became
Up to Noon Yesterday Many Openly
Boasted That They Took Part in
Lynching But Governor's Reward
, Silences Them.
Ministers Pass Resolutions.
Before dark the square was deserted
and tonight it is absolutely quiet.
Around the jail are camped 200 soldiers
with guards out at every point, so that
ne one could get near the jail.
When Cannefax was arrested today it
was discovered that he was appointed
yesterday to help keep the peace here.
It is expected that the grand jury will
Indict fifty and perhaps one hundred men.
Not a member of the mob wore a mask,
nor made any attempt at concealment.
The names of the leaders and of those
who led the negroes by ropes through
the streets and who lynched them afterwards
are well known here.
The Ministerial Alliance, composed of
all the ministers of the city, passed
strong resolutions at their meeting today
condemning the mob and calling upon
all law- abiding citizens to support the
efforts of Governor Folk and Prosecuting
Attorney Patterson to bring the mob leaders
to justice. A mass meeting that
was to have been called by the alliance
for tonight will not be held. The civil
and militia authorities asked that the
meeting should be given up, but assigned
no reasons. The six negro members of
the alliance united in saying that no effort
would be made by the colored people
to have revenge for the work of
the mob.
On leaving for St. Louis this afternoon
Governor Folk made the following statement
:
" I am now advised that about 100 leaders
of the Saturday night mob are known.
I have instructed General Clark to arrest
these and place them in jail. If any
attempt at rescue is made and more
troops are needed I will send the First
regiment and light battery" A" of St.
Louis. He will comunicate with me
the Planters' hotel at St. Louis." at
