Gadsden, September 17 .-( Special.)- In
the opening session of the Gadsden city
court this morning, Judge J. H. Disque
the presiding judge, ordered the grand
jury to make a rigid investigation of
the Bunk Richardson lynching which took
place on February 11 of this year. He
urged them to use every means in their
power to bring the guilty to justice. The
first grand jury that investigated the
case, reported that"" They had exhausted
every means in their power to find the
guilty parties, but that they could not
find one scintilla of evidence upon which
they could indict." The same jury were
recalled later to investigate homicides
but were not ordered to make another investigation
of the lynching. The present
grand jury is composed of some of the
best citizens of the county, the foreman
being Thomas Ewing of the Ewing Hard-
company of this city, and is a gen-
ware tleman of the highest integrity.
JUDGE J. H. DISQUE
CHARGES THE JURY
Investigation of Bunk
Wants Richardson Lynching
The September term of the city court of
Gadsden convened this morning at 10
o'clock. After the usual formalities Judge
Disque delivered an able and comprehen,
sive charge, as to what duties and obligations
devolved upon the grand jury. He
first admonished them as to the sacredness
of the oath they had taken. Particular
stress was laid upon crime, murder
in particular. He said that he believed
that the failure to bring the perpetrators
of lynching to justice was the
cause of so much crime in this county,
as it had the tendency on the part of the
individual to take the law in his own
hands He said that it was his intention
.
to instruct each succeeding grand jury
to investigate this lynching until the
guilty parties are apprehended. He called
attention to gambling and asked that
this too be thoroughly investigated. Attention
was called to the recent primary
election and asked that it be reported
upon as it was conducted or should be,
on as strict a line as the regular election
since the legislature had enacted
laws governing it. They were charged as
to perjury, and were warned of the pernicious
effects of the practice and the
great danger of its effects. The entire
charge was replete with sound patriotic
sentiment which sought to awaken in
jurymen a full conception of the
the dignity of their office.
