BAR OF GADSDEN
CONDEMNS CRIME
Support Pledged to Governor
to Uphold the Law
VIGOROUS SPEECHES MADE
Goodhue Wnats to Show Whether the
Sheriff and Police Were Not
Derelict in Their Duty
Sunday Morning. On
Gadsden. February 12 .-( Special.)- The
Gadsden Bar association, composed of all
the lawyers in the city, held a meeting
at the court house this afternoon for the
purpose of condemning yesterday's lynching
. Strong resolutions denouncing the
murder of Richardson, condemning mob
spirit and promising loyalty to the governor
were passed by unanimous vote. Ringing
speeches were made by Judge J. A.
Billbro, A. E. Goodhue, W. J. Boykin and
others.
When the committee presented resolutions
the committee chairman. O. R. Hood,
moved their adoption, and made a short
talk along the line of the sentiment they
expressed. The last two paragraphs, however
, were not in the original draft, and
were submitted as amendments by Judge
Billbro and accepted and adopted. It was
stated and generally understood that the
resolutions as to loyalty to the governor
had no reference as to his action in the
Johnson case since the bar itself differed
on that point, and more particularly because
that was not part of the business
of the meeting, nor did it properly enter
into the proceedings of the meeting, according
to expressions of the speakers.
Members of Bar Indignant.
Members of the Gadsden bar, especially
those who were heard, were indignant
that the county should have been outraged
by the murder of Richardson, and there
finally crept in a criticism of officers who
surrendered to the mob. Mr. Goodhue was
frank and open in the statement that he
desired to press an investigation as to
whether the sheriff, police or any officer
was remiss in his duty. He said that it
should be known what the sheriff did from
the time of the assault on the jail up to
the next morning at 7 o'clock. It should be
brought out, he said, why the sheriff did
not give the alarm, ring the fire bell or
something of the sort. The same applied
to policemen who did not give the alarm
so that the lynchers might be either prevented
from committing the crime or else
be detected and identified. Mr. Goodhue
said that he wished the sheriff had been
present to note his assertion, that the
sheriff and his deputies ought not to speak
of the lynching in a light manner and
should feel that they, too, had been outraged
.
Fed by Agitators.
Judge Billbro stated that the mob spirit
existed; that it was fed by agitators, and
that everyone who added fuel to the
flame was guilty as an accomplice in the
lynching of Bunk Richardson. He did not
charge or even intimate that an officer
had been derelict in his duty, but he said
the law required the sheriff to protect
prisoners even up to the point of giving
his own life to do so.
Boykin Explains Attitude.
Mr. Boykin explained and justified his
connection with the Johnson se. He
said that it had been brought to him
that statements had been made that
some negro organizations had sent in
money and paid him to take the stand
he did. This he indignantly denied and
explained that he saw Johnson only once
and never spoke to him or had any communication
with him at any time. The
Rev. J. W. Newman' and the Rev. H. C.
Kegley were called upon and approved
of the sentiment of the meeting as did
Mayor Smith. E. W. Whipps, president
of the Commercial club, was called upon
to convene that body at once to take action
on the lynching, and agreed to
do so.
There can be no question that the people
of Gadsden are stirred up over this
matter. They are determined to have the
outside world understand the true sentiment
of the community and it was particularly
stated that the unalterable determination
of the Gadsden bar to uphold
the law should be understood in
Etowah county itself. The meeting of the
bar association was the initiative movement
of the civic and judicial bodies of
the city and county in this matter which
will be followed by severe denunciations
through the whole of the Gadsden district
.
The resolutions adopted today as
follows: are
Resolutions Are Supported.
" Whereas, early Sunday morning a mob
said to be composed of twenty- five or
thirty persons, took from the jail of this
county a negro, named Bunk Richardson,
and lynched him, and
" Whereas, the matter of whether or not
he had committeed or had any connection
with the commission of the murder of
Mrs. Sarah Jane Smith had been investigated
by the grand jury of the county,
which body failed to find evidence to the
effect that he had committed the crime.
failing to prefer an indictment against
him, and
" Whereas, he was being held in jail to
await the action of any future grand
jury on any newly discovered testimony,
and
" Whereas, the state of Alabama has a
full, complet and adequate code of laws
for speedy and fair trial and an adequate
punishment of criminals committing the
crime of murder, and
" Whereas, these laws have been wholly
ignored and trampled into the dust by this
mob in the lynching of this man without
a trial, and
" Whereas, the lynching of a person by
a mob is nothing less than murder in its
violent form, and is destructive of all
law and order as well as of the great
teachings and principles of Christianity,
now. therefore, be it
" Resolved, By the Etowah Bar associa-
tion. that the lynching of Bunk Rich-
ardson is greatly deplored and should be
condemned by all law- abiding citizens of
the county; that the murder of this man
be, and is, hereby condemned in unmeasured
terms; that all law- abiding citizens
are urged to co- operate with this
bar association in quenching at once
this unlawful and awful spirit of taking
the life of a human being without a trial
under the forms of law; be it further
" Resolved, That we call upon the min-
and all Christian people in this
county to make use of every opportunity
to preach and instill into the minds of the
people a law- abiding spirit.
Resolved, That it is the sense of this
bar" association that our courts, state and
municipal. should use all lawful means
to determine whether any officer was remiss
in duty in trying to avert the lynch-
ing of said prisoner.
" Resolved, That we assure our governor
of our unwavering loyalty to him in his
efforts to perform the high duties of his
office accordingly as his conscience may
approve and determine.
" O. R. HOOD,
" CATO D. GLOVER,
" W. R. DORTCH,
" H. T. DAVIS.
AIKEN.
" JAMES"
