DETERMINED HUNTSVILLE MOB
NEGRO MURDERER LYNCHED BY
Set Fire to Jail and Hold Off
the Fire Department
by Shooting
NEGRO HAD KILLED AND
ROBBED AGED PEDDLER
John H. Wallace and Solicitor Erle
Pettus Make Impressive Pleas
to the, But Were
Hooted Mob Down.
Huntsville, September 7.- After setting
fire to the jail and smoking out the prisoner
while the fire department was held
at bay with guns and the sheriff, his
deputies and the soldiers outwitted, a
mob estimated at over 2000 persons lynched
Horace Maples, the negro accused of
murdering John Waldrop, by stringing
him to a tree in the courthouse lawn tonight
.
This action of the mob was taken
notwithstanding strong protests made by
Solicitor Erle ettus and John H. Wal-
lace, Jr., in stirring speeches in which
law and order were pleaded for eloquently
.
The crowd began to gather this afternoon
and tonight, as soon as the details
of the crime spread throughout the country
in which Waldrop had a number of
friends, and before the militia which
was ordered from Birmingham by Acting
Governor Cunningham arrived the mob
had swelled to enormous proportions.
Pluckily Stood Their Ground.
The sheriff and his deputies pluckily
stood their ground, but they were powerless
before the mob and the fire. The
local militia company was called out but
they were outwitted by the men who conceived
the idea of smoking out the prisoner
.
At 10:20 o'clock the jail was fired, the
lack part burning fiercely, a dense smoke
spreading through the upper stories and
cells of the building. The fire department
was not allowed to approach within a
block of the scene, and was driven away
with bullets.
The crowd on the outside would allow
nobody to enter or come out until the
person of Horace Maples was surrender-
ed to the crowd. The sheriff and his
guards would not give in, but in some
manner the negro got through a window
and jumped out of the building into
the crowd.
He was chased down and a rope thrown
around his neck, and he was quickly
Lulled up to the county court house.
There was an immense crowd the
on
lawn. While Maples was confessing his
crime, and implicating a white man and
two other negroes, John Wallace, Jr., and
Solicitor Erle Pettus delivered impassioned
addresses trying to dissuade the
mob.
Were Hooted Down.
They were hooted down in turn but finally
when Solicitor Pettus called on all
who were in favor of the law taking its
course to hold up their hands, about
half in the big crowd of several thousand
did so. There was cheering for a
moment, but the men with the rope pulled
the negro away, threw one end of the
rope over a limb and drew him up. The
negro was dead in a few moments.
A crowd will make an attempt to capture
the 1.egroes implicated as accomplices
, but no further disorder is expect-
ed tonight. United States District Judge
Shelby during the attack issued an order
for" nited States deputy marshals to protect
United States prisoners in the burn-
ing building, and obtain the names of all
parties engaged in endangering the prisoners
' lives.
Another Account of Affair.
Huntsville, September 7 .-( Special.)-
The body of Horace Maples, the negro
murdered now hangs from a limb in the
county court house yard, and around
him hang Japanese lanterns that earlier
in the evening lightened an ice cream
supper. The Madison county jail is almost
gutted by fire on the lower flowers
and the damage will amount to thousands
.
Early in the evening the mob was kept
from the streets leading to the jail by
sentries. The guard lines were rushed at
9 o'clock and the jail doors were broken
in. In making promiscuous fires to smoke
out the sheriff and the militia company
the jail caught fire. The fire department
was turned back with a volley of pistol
shots. During the excitement Maples
jumped from a window in the upper story
and was quickly taken to the
house with a rope around his neck. court
Made a Confession.
He made a confession that set the authorities
on the trail of a white man
and two negroes alleged accomplices in
the murder. Hon. John H. Wallace, Solicitor
Erle Pettus and one or two others
made addresses, but they were interrupted
by frequent cries to" hang the negro."
Fully half of the crowd disapproved the
lynching, but nothing could be done to
save the negro without endangering the
lives of scores of people. In a manner
calmn and deliberate for a mob, the
guilty negro was swung up. The crowd
was cleared away and several volleys of
shots were fired into his body.
Additional military companies were ordered
here tonight, but the lack of train
equipment prevented them from taking
specials and reaching here when needed.
The action of United States Judge Shelby
may add complications to the lynching
and cause an unexpected hand to be taken
by the government. He ordered several
deputies to the jail to protect United
States prisoners and instructed them to
obtain names of men composing the mob
.
This done and the next grand jury
will investigate was.
