IN HUNTSVILLE CASES
SENSATIONAL EVIDENCE
Aged Confederate Veteran on Trial Says Judge Speake Offered
Help Lynch Negro if He Was Not Convicted- Says
to Pettus Should Have Rope Around His Neck.
UNTSVILLE, September 30 .-( Spe-
H cial.)- James H. Mitchell, a confederate
veteran, nearly seventy
years old, and the alleged leader of the
mob that lynched Horace Maples, was
put on the witness stand today and testified
that he heard Judge Speake make
an address to the mob, urging them to
go home and let the law take its course.
Furthermore, the judge, according to
Mitchell, said if the negro was not legally
hung he would assist a mob to get him
out and lynch him.
The unusual testimony created a sensation
and Mitchell asked Judge Speake to
take the stand and corroborate him, but
this was of course refused. Mitchell admitted
that he had suggested hanging
the judge and a few lawyers, but said
He grew wrathy
this was all in fun.
when cross- examined by the solicitor and
said Solicitor Pettus should have a rope
around his neck for trying to convict an
innocent man.
The defendant caused another ripple of
amusement by calling the Rev. Frank P.
Culver, main witness for the prosecution
a fool, and saying that if the minister,
went to heaven at all he would be
hitched outside.
The Mitchell case went to the jury at
5 o'clock and it is not likely that the
jury will reach an agreement for several
hours. The jurymen filed back into court
at the night session and handed a slip of
the clerk. It said:" We, the
paper
jury, find that we are unable to reach a
verdict." Judge Speake sent them back
to try agait ..
The trial of Tom Winkle, charged with
arson, began in the afternoon and was
finished tonight. C. W. Freeman, principal
witness for the state, testified that
Winkle told him that he had taken a
leading part in burning the jail, but had
nothing to do with hanging the negro.
John Fullington, for the defense, testified
that Winkle was with him on the
night of the lynching and could have
taken no part in the transaction at the
jail. Fullington was asked if he had ever
been convicted of a felony, and replied
that he had not and would kill whoever
said he had. Court records
were produced
and it was shown that Fullington
was convicted of manslaughter and sentenced
to four years' imprisonment.
James Armstrong will be put on trial
tomorrow on a charge of arson. He is
the last alleged lynchc: at hand, only
eight men having been captured out
the twenty- six indicted. of
