Will Allen, the Third Victim of
Mad Fury of Springfield, Mob
The Is Hanged and Burned at Same Spot
Springfield, Mo., April 15.- At 2:15,
o'clock this morning William Allen, a
negro, was taken from the county jail
here and lynched in the public square by
the same mob that two hours earlier had
hanged Horace Duncan and James Cope-
land. The body of Allen later was burn-
ed to ashes, as had been those of the
other negroes, beneath the spot where
they had been lynched.
Following the dispatch of Duncan and
Copeland, some one suggested that Allen
and Bus Cain, two other negroes known
to be in the jail, should also be lynched.
The mob now bloodthirsty and wrought
up to the highest pitch of excitement,
readily took up the cry and soon the
charred bones of a third victim lay beneath
the statue of the Goddess of Liberty
. Cain escaped.
Allen and Cain were being held upon
suspicion of having murdered O. P.
Oruark, while Duncan and Copeland were
accused of assaulting Mabel Edmundson,
a white domestic.
Their work finally accomplished, the
mob quietly dispersed. But today crowds
augmented by hundreds of persons from
surrounding towns filled the streets making
threats of further vengeance, and
tonight several companies of state' militia
ordered out by Governor Folk, together
200 deputy sheriffs, patrol
the streets with.
Prisoners Escape.
When the mob left the jail at midnight
with Copeland and Duncan fourteen prisoners
escaped in the excitement. Among
them was Cain. But Allen was there yet,
and the second mob found him hiding under
a cot. He was dragged out, his hands
were tied behind his back, a rope was
put around his neck, and he was marched
down the street to the town square. The
mob climbed upon the stairway and, stood
upon the platform of the statue with Al-
len between them. One of these men who
held a lantern in his hand, faced the
crowd below and waving his hand toward
the negro, said:
" Ladies and gentlemen, this is Will Al-
len, the man who murdered old man
Ruark. What shall we do with him?"
" Hang him," cried the crowd." Throw
him overboard."
" Can any one identify this negro?"
asked the spokesman.
" Hold up the lantern," some one shouted
. The man put the lantern up so that
It shone into the face of the negro, and
Bome one in the crowd said:
Allen Identified.
" Yes, I identify him; hang him."
At this the crowd laughed.
" Are you Will Allen," asked the orator
.
" Yes, but I did not kill Ruark," he answered
.
" Well, who did?"
" I only know what I heard, that Bus
Cain killed him," the negro answered.
" Make him spit it out. Make him confess
!" the crowd shouted.
The man with the lantern shouted
again:
" Is this negro guilty? Yes or no."
Some one shouted" yes;" others cried
" no."
The mob was undecided. While the
crowd was debating the second man on
the platform, the crowd began tying a
rope to the iron railing.
The negro stood directly above the
smouldering ash heap from which the
smell of buring flesh arose. But he stood
erect while the man with the lantern
harangued the mob, and the crowd jeered
at the negro. In the meantime the rope
had been placed about Allen's neck, and
presently the hangman caught the negro's
ankles, lifted him and threw him forward
I over the railing. Allen turned a somersault
in the air and as the rope became
taut his neck cracked like a pistol
shot. The rope broke and he felt in the
bed of coals on top of the other
negroes. two
Rope Breaks,
There he kicked and floundered around
until another rope was brought, thrice
looped around the neck, and he was again
suspended in midair.
More boxes were brought and another
big fire was kindled, and soon the swaying
figure now dead, fell into it, sending
up a spray of live sparks. After that
most of the men went home, but some
men and boys stayed by the tower all
night and fed the fires. When daylight
broke upon the scene there remained only
the blackened trunks and charred remains
of three negroes.
Five thousand persons saw the trio
hanged and burned. Among the crowd
of spectators were hundreds of women
and children, girls and boys. In a hall
overlooking the plaza an Easter dance
was in progress. Its music stopped while
the dancers crowded to the windows
and watched the writhing black bodies
and the flames that finally consumed
them
Today. souvenirs of the night, consist
ing of a button from rousers of
the negroes, a piece of the hangman's
rope, and other pieces of relics were ea-
bought by many among the crowds
gerly that gathered at the scene.
