ALLEGED LYNCHERS
PROVE ALIBIS
Marquet and Werner in Shipp
Contempt Case
NEGRO WAS SHOT TO DEATH
Witnesses Introduced to Establish
Allbis- Straightforward Stories
About Their
Corroborated Whereabouts.
Chattanooga, June 17.- At the opening
of the Shipp contempt case in the United
States court this morning spectators were
not present in the abundance that has
marked the hearing during the past
week. Even the negroes did not come
out in the usual numbers, evidently not
expecting anything that would satisfy
their appetite for details of th elynching.
District Attorney Penland did not arrive
until 10:45, and some delay was cg-
perienced in commencing. It was 10.40
a. m. when Commissioner Maher called
the session to order. The witnesses introduced
were confined to those whose evidence
tended to establish alibis for W. L.
Marquet and" Sheenie" Werner, who
are alleged to be members of
the mob that hanged Ed John-
son. It is probable that the hearing
will be hurried hereafter, and that two
sessions will be held daily if necessary to
complete taking the evidence in a short
time. It is desired to complete the work
this week if possible.
Dr. Cooper Holtzclaw was the first witness
this morning, being introduced in
behalf of W. L. Marquet, whose case
was being heard when the court adjourned
Saturday. Dr. Holtzclaw told
of Mr. Marquet being in his office and of
a conversation he had with the defendant
the morning after the lynching. He also
testified that he was on the county bridge
after the negro had been lynched, and
that he had been called upon to examine
the body to find out whether Johnson was
dead. He did so, and found that the negro
had come to his death from pistol
shots and not from the hanging. He
found five bullet wounds, any of which
was sufficient to cause his death. Mr.
Marquet himself then went on the stand
and told a straightforward story about
his whereabouts the night of the lynching
.
This completed the case of Mr. Mar-
quet, and that of Paul Werner, described
in the information as" Sheenie," was the
taken first introduced
up.
was C. W. O'Conner, a brother- in- law of
the defendant, who told of Werner's being
at his home the night of the lynching
. That fact was impressed on his mind
on account of the fact that he himself
had been accused the next morning of
living participated the lynching and
having knocked a black down. He called
to mind the presence at his home of Wer-
ner in order that he might use his testimony
if there should be any proceedings
against him as a result of the lynching
. Cumulative testimony to the same
effect was given by the defendant's sister,
Mrs. C. W. O'Connor, and by his mother,
Mrs. Theresa Werner. The defendant
himself then went on the stand and told
where he was the night of the lynching.
His case was closed when the hearing
adjourned to 9 o'clock tomorrow
ing. morn-
