SHERIFF DEALS
DEATH TO A MOB
Negro Is Lynched After Terrible
Battle At Jail
ONE LYNCHER IS KILLED
Twenty Members of the Mob Receive
Injuries, Some of Them Fatal,
During Attack on Jail
Late at Night.
Montgomery, July 29.- A special to the
Advertiser from Pensacola, Fla., says:
Two men dead and a score wounded
, three fatally, is the record OF
an attempt tonight by a mob to storm
the county jail, and take out the negro,
Leander Shaw, who today assaulted Mrs.
Lilian Davis near here.
The dead are. C. Kellum, a street car
conductor; Dud Nichols.
A. N.
The fatally wounded are:
Knowles, member of mob; Charley Turner
, member of mob, and Jailer Eaton.
The mob numbered probably 1000 persons
and gathered early, but there was
no apparent indication that the crowd,
which completely surrounded the jail,
contemplated making a rush until nearly
two hours later.
The first indication was when a railroad
iron was brought into play by about&
dozen men upon the iron gate of the jail
yard. At the same moment the entire
mob seemed to catch the spirit, and with
yells and curses dashed for the jail entrance
. Some climbed over the tall iron
fence, while others hammered upon the
gate.
The sheriff, with half a dozen deputies,
stood in windows upstairs with drawn
revolvers and riot rifles. The sheriff
pleaded with the mob, at the same time
telling them he would defend the prisoner
at the cost of every life present.
His words had no effect, and the moment
the first blow was struck on the
gate a volley of shots flashed from the
upper windows of the jail. This was answered
by the crowd, which poured volley
after volley into the jail windows,
wounding two deputies. The mob was
momentarily driven back with many
wounded and one dead as a result of the
deadly aim of the sheriff and his deputies.
At midnight the mob, which had in the
meantime been reinforced by many residents
of the surrounding country, made
another attack upon the jail.
The sheriff and officers were overpowered
by some of the men who had
crept over the rear wall and covered them
with rifles and revolvers. Others broke
down the cell door and took Shaw out.
The negro was carried to the center of
the plaza and hanged to an electric light
pole, after which fully 500 shots were fired
into his dangling body.
In this latter fight H. C. Kellum, a
street car conductor, was killed, while
two deputies and four or five of the mob
wounded.
were
At 1 o'clock this( Thursday) morning
everything is quiet and the mob has dispersed
.
Sheriff Van Pelt, in an interview shortly
after the lynching, said:
" While I regret the death of the two
men, and the wounding of many others, I
have done nothing except what I was
called upon to do when I took the oath
of office. I pleaded with the mob for
more than an hour and told them what
would be the consequences if they attacked
the jail. I was in duty bound to
protect the negro and proposed to do so.
" They would never have gotten him but
for the fact that I and my forces were
engaged with the mob in front when a
portion of the men climbed the rear wall
and overpowered us."
At midnight the body of Shaw was
swinging from the pole bearing this placard
:" God Bless Our Home."
Shaw was captured about 6 o'clock this
evening. It was not until 8 o'clock that
any shots were fired, when the mob started
to batter down the gates. Then the
firing became promiscuous. Deputies were
firing from the jail windows while the
mob climbed the fence surrounding the
jail and fired at the deputies.
" Dud" Nichols, whose son is a deputy,
and who only today had tried to prevail
upon his son to leave the service of the
county, was one of the first to be killed.
Two hours later the attack was renewed
and by a flank movement the mob
succeeded in eluding the officers in front.
and climbing, over the back wall in large
numbers, overpowered the officers, battered
down the cell door of Shaw, secured
their prisoner and hustled him to the public
square, the plaza, where he was quick-
strung up and hundreds of shots fired
ly into his body.
negro.
Sheriff deals death to mob that lynches
