SHERIFF SHIPP
TO BE PUNISHED
FOR LYNCHING
Shipp and Five Others Are
Held In Contempt By Decision
of Supreme Court
SENTENCE OF COURT WILL
BE PRONOUNCED JUNE 1
The Six Defendants Are Held Responsible
For Lynching of Negro in
1905 While He Was Awaiting
Appeal of Case.
Washington, May 24.- For the first time
in so serious a case, the supreme court
of the United States will on next Tues.
day week undertake to mete out punishment
for the crime of contempt of the
court itself, and the importance of the
occasion will be enhanced by the number
of the defendants.
The proceedings will take place in connection
with the cases of Sheriff Shipp
and Deputy Sheriff Gibson of Hamilton
county, Tennessee, and four other residents
of that county, named respectively
, Williams, Nolan, Padgett and May.
These were today declared by the
court to be guilty of an act of contempt
in combining in March, 1905, in a conspiracy
to lynch a negro, Ed Johnson,
who had been sentenced to death by
the local courts on the charge of rape
and in whose case the supreme court
had interfered to the extent of granting
an appeal which had the effect of a
supersedeas. On, the night following the
announcement of the court's action John-
son was taken out of the jail in Chatta-
nooga by a mob and lynched. There
was no resistance on the part of the
jail authorities and Shipp and a number
of his deputies, as well as about 20 citizens
, were proceeded against on the
charge of contempt of the federal court.
Case Long Pending.
The case has been pending ever since,
and the number of defendants was from
time to time diminished to nine. Of these
nine three today were found guiltless,
while the other six were ordered to be
brought into court next Tuesday week
for sentence. They will be taken into
custody immediately and will appear in
court in charge of Marshal Wright. The
sentence may be either fine or imprisonment
or both.
The case is regarded as of exceptional
interest because it is practically the first
time that this, the highest court in the
United States, has ever undertaken to
assert its dignity or to resent acts or
words reflecting upon it. In one previous
case years ago a defendant was fined
for some expression of contempt, but the
case was so comparatively insignificant
as to practically leave the present proceeding
standing alone.
In the cases of Sheriff Shipp and Deputy
Sheriff Gibson the court declares
there may be contempt in the failure
of the officers of the law to prevent the
crime, and taking cognizance of an offense
at so great a distance the court asserts
for the first time by action its right
to compel the proper respect for and
treatment of its verdicts in all parts of
the union.
In Custody of Court.
The charge of contempt against Sheriff
Shipp and his co- defendants was due to
the fact that when Johnson was lynched
he was constructively in the custody of
the court. Only a month before the negro
had been found guilty of the crime
of rape and had been sentenced to death.
The supreme court had taken cognizance
of the case by granting an appeal from
a decision of the United States circuit
court, denying him a writ of habeas corpus
, which effected a stay of proceedings
in the convict's case. The appeal was allowed
March 19, and that night Johnson
was taken out of jail at Chattanooga
and hanged. This action was strongly
resented by the court, and immediately
the complaint was made to President
Roosevelt, who ordered an investigation
by the department of justice. That investigation
resulted in the filing in the
court by the attorney general in May,
1906, of an" information" in which Shipp
and nine of his deputies and 17 other persons
were charged with complicity in
the lynching, Shipp and some of his
subordinates by absenting themselves
from the jail on the night of the tragedy
and the others by actual participation in
it. The case aroused much interest in
the south because not only of the exceptional
character of the proceeding, but
because of the popularity of Mr. Shipp
and the character of Johnson's crime.
Justice Harlan exercised an especial activity
in bringing the lynching to the
attention of the authorities. He had been
the first member of the court to take
notice of the offense and he seemed to
most keenly feel the indignity to the court
implied by the lynching. Deputy Clerk
Maher of the court was sent to Chatta-
nooga as a commisisoner to investigate
and take testimony. The Investigation
failed to connect with the crime 17 of
the men implicated and the cases against
them were dismissed at the beginning of
the present term.
Neglect of Duty.
The chief justice presented a complete
review of the Johnson case. He concluded
that neither Shipp nor his deputy,
Gibson, had made any effort to prevent
the removal of Johnson from the jail, to
prevent his killing after he was taken out,
nor to discover the participants in the
lynching after it took place.
It will lie with the court to determine
the degree of punishment that may be
inflicted upon the men found guilty.
Justice Peckham delivered a dissenting
opinion, declaring that there was not
" the slightest testimony to support the
charge against Shipp."
Justice Peckham concluded by asserting
that Mr. Shipp, whom he described as
" an invalid old man," had been held" to
a degree of responsibility far beyond any
reasonable limit." He also held that the
testimony against Deputy Gibson, who
was the jailer, was insufficient to convict
him of contempt. Justices White and
McKenna concurred in the dissenting
opinion.
The chief justice quoted liberally from
an interview given out by Shipp
( CONTINUED ON PAGE 6.) some
