STILL AT IT.
It is doubtful if any newspaper in the
country has more persistently misrepresented
and maligned the south than has
the New York Evening Post. That
undertakes to read the south a
newspaper
lecture pretty much every time a negro
criminal comes to grief by the commission
of some heinous offense in this part
of the country. Little is said in the way
of warning to negroes to quit their meanness
, but the white man of the south
comes in for any amount of abuse and
denunciation.
Not ong ago a Georgia negro who had
engaged in a shooting with a white man
was set upon by a mob and lynched. This
was of course deplorable, and the newspapers
of the south were outspoken in
their denunciation of the thing, as is
nearly always the case in the south when
these lynching outrages take place.
But the New York Evening Post, which
seems to forget to engage in much villi-
fication over such bachanalia of blood
as was witnessed of late in Illinois, takes
the incident as another excuse to engage
in its usual exhibition of slobbering ne-
grophilism as set forth in the following:
" But what a terrible hindrance these
barbarities must be to the good work
of Booker Washington and to the white
men who are holding up his hands! Hardly
has his wise counsel to negroes to
uphold the law in all ways fallen upon
their ears, when their passions are
aroused by a story like this, which must
tend to make them feel as though, being
subject to such lawless inhumanity, they
were likewise outside the pale of legal
obligation."
The Richmond Times- Dispatch, which
has published many favorable comments
about Booker Washington, says in this
connection:
" To put Booker Washington forward
as the one great insistent voice for law
and order between the races in the
Bouth, with only incidental support
from white men, is an audacity as besotted
and insolent as anything that ever
came out of this notoriously perverted
source
" As. for the last broad and astound-
ing hint, the hint that these outbreaks
of mob lawlessness justify the negro
in giving free rein to his passion, it is
certain that every black bully with a
bottle on his hip, every black murderer,
cutthroat and assassin, black
every
beast in the stature of a man, will welcome
it as the most comforting words
that have been offered on the negro question
in half a century."
The truth is this same New York
Evening Post, while posing as a friend
of the negro, is doing much to demoralize
the negro and influence him to
bring any amount of trouble upon himself
. Such suggestions as the above
from this exponent of negrophilism encourages
the negro criminal to engage
in the very crines which the law-
abiding white citizens of the south have
been doing everything in their power to
prevent. If the New York Evening Post
really loved the negro half so earnestly
as it appears to hate the white man in
the south common sense ought to suggest
to its editor that this is one of
the most dangerous ways in existence to
help the negro.
" Sectionalism is dead," say the newspapers
, magazines and stump orators, and
they press their point with what Falstaff
called" damnable iteration," but if sectionalism
be dead, then it certainly does
not lie quiet in its grave. On the contrary
it, not only visits the glimpses of
the moon but stalks abroad in daylight
and limelight. Indeed it is the liveliest
corpse that the world had seen
Voltaire" killed" Christianity. since
