village and town of the N& W. R. R., at Stanleyton out again.
The Gaffney saw mill engine case
was here first of the week to meet his
will be provided sister Miss Sallie Hamrick, of Co- has ended in favor of the Shenandoah
Coal and Iron Co. and the engine
, nurse uniforms and lumbus, Ohio.
of a well- appointed Eld. S. A. Shaver was called to arrived in Liberty, on Tuesday, after
At graduation the di Winchester on Monday to conduct the noon.
Rev. Mr. Pence was at Liberty last
School and the Order of funeral services of Mrs. Houck.
be conferred, quali The annual Communion services of week. Had catechising at the school
in any State or coun the German Baptist's will held at house on Friday and preaching on
fare will then be paid Valley Pike on Saturday Oct. 14th, Saturday night. On Saturday after
noon he held harvest meeting at St.
beginning at 2:30 P.M.
and chosen to receive Mr. David Stickley and wife of Paul's and also held a service there
this fund will be given Strasburg visited the family of Rev. on Sunday morning. All the meet
, with a rich exper E. B. Shaver several days first of the ings were well attended.
Mrs. William Soitler who has been
the sick poor of the week.
leaders. The term Bauserman is visiting ill for the last two weeks was taken to
to eighteen months her grandson Dr. Noah Schmucker at the hospital at Strasburg on Wednes
day of last week. Her physician Dr.
preliminary course of six Mt. Clifton this week.
gave all hope of her re
and study at home. A
Miss Mary Fetzer who returned from Hamrick up
course enables young wo the Hospital in Baltimore, last July is covery unless an operation was per
formed and as that was beyond Mrs.
qualify themselves for improving very nicely.
substantial income. Spitler's means, John Stickley clerk
FETZER DOORES.
regular nursing, the On Thursday at 2:30 p m. Miss Lee of the company's store and N. J.
are taught how to pre- Doores of Culpeper county, and Mr. Wilson the bookkeeper, sent out sub
health; how to recog- Arthur C. Fetzer, eldest son of Cyrus scription papers among the people
destroy contagion; how Fetzer of this place were married at and in a few hours the money needed
maintain perfect sani- the residence of Robt. Fetzer of Topnot. was subscribed. The same afternoon
about the home; they Rev. E. B. Shaver performed the cere- Mrs. Spitler was taken to the hospital
for positions as office mony. The groom was Regimental by her husband and Dr. Hamrick.
physician's assistant; they quartermaster of the 14th Cavalry for Dr. Bruin was the surgeon and it is
knowledge of City Mis- some years, and was in the Phillipines said she is doing well since the opera
Deaconess training, 20 months. After a short bridal tription was performed. It was thought
work, and are train-| they will reside at the the home of the she would remain two weeks at the
positions of trust in groom's father. The bride was dress- hospital but it is now thought bested
in a brown cloth going away gown. since enough money has been raised,
ten years old and is Little Florence Shaver was license to have her stay three weeks.
There were only few in Liberty
have the best
a
physicians, leading edu bearer. The happy pair
who did not respond to the
prominent men throughout wishes of their many friends.
Walter Fahnestock who has the scar- call of help and much credit is due
let fever is some better at this writ- Messrs. Stickley and Wilson for their
efforts in the matter.
FORT. ing.
are now ready to seed. TOM'S BROOK. CASTORIA.
and some are done. The Kind You Have Always Bought
Mr. C. W. Jones manager of the Bears the
Chat H. Fletchers
is fairly good. Signature
Fairfax Stave Co., at Burkes spent a
of
is ahead in crop day or two here this week.
He thrashed over 16 Miss Linsey Albert and brother of Alton B. Parker is reported as hav
of grain this year. A Brunswick, Md., is visiting C. L. ing accepted a 8100,000 a- year job as
Mr. Rittenour lost a Crabill and friends here this week. counsel for a rapid- transit concern in
Miss Ida and Anna Rosenberger Brooklyn. Isn't this the man who
Lichliter lost a cow by spent once ran for President? The name
Sunday at Strasburg.
chop. Messrs. Walter, Straten, Will sounds familiar.- Portland Oregon
Lichlider of Indiana, Smith, B. M. Borden, G. L. Borden ian.
relatives and friends. and wife, Crist Borden and two chil Fire yesterday destroyed half a doz
here for 12 years, and dren, S. D. Ritenour, J. H. Ritenour
en of the principal business buildings
months.
and Otis Borden spent Sunday in on West Park street in Butte, Mon.,
Burke, of Warren coun Baltimore.
and the public library building on
week in this place, Mr. G. L. Crabill who is working Broadway. The total insurance loss
meeting at Mt. Zion last in a Southern Ry. camp spent Sunday is fully$ 600,000 and the fire loss in ex
a large crowd of
at his home.
cess of a million dollars.
Golda Golladay was
Mr. Frank Bushong who has been
spend the day on her in Manassas Five men were killed and more than
, Washington and Balti
more for the last week, returned here 20 persons were injured in a rear- end
that Mr. Arch Gol collision at Paoli Station, on the
Sunday evening.
be better as he is in Miss Daisy Borden is visiting Pennsylvania railroad.
good nurse.
friends in Washington this week. The Hustings Court grand jury has
Ritenour came to Mr.
Mr. Kelley Crabill who has been taken up the election frauds in Rich
week and took Miss quite ill, returned to work Monday. mond and sensational developments
home and called her
Mrs. Kate Crabill who has been are anticipated.
visiting her son, Charles, at Manassas
Clanahan was CASTORIA.
married a returned home Sunday.
Bears the The Kind You Have Always Bought
Signature Chat H Fletchers
has purchased the
JADWYN.
of
A. M. Yates
DEATH OF A. G. WALKER.
at the old stand at Dissolution Notice.
On last Saturday Sept. 23d, soon
after mid day, Mr. A. G. Walker one
of our most aged, and respected citi- The partnershi heretofore existing
KIBLERTOWN.
zens departed this life at his home, between Geo. R. Golladay and J. S.
Hottle was called to
her daughter Mrs. after battling with a complication of Barr will, by mutual consent, be dis
diseases: being a very intelligent man solved on September 1st, 1905.
sick, but is now.
he fully realized his condition, and Thanking the people for their pat
prepared to meet his end, which came, ronage in the past and asking for a
Heishman and wife
same the old
spent
friends here recent- calmly and peacefully, he lived to be continuance of the at
stand, where I will continue the busi
upwards of 78 years.
The funeral was preached in the M.ness with a full stock of goods, I re
was visiting near
E. Church, by his paster the Eld. P. main, Respectfully,
.
W. Wisman, of the Brethren church Sept. 15, 3t. GEO. R. GOLLADAY.
Swartz who has been
of which he was a member. After the
Valuable Residence
., and
Va
A Store
for some time
services here the hearse of Mr. Frank
sister Mrs. Fannie Stand for Sale.
Fravel, of Woodstock, bore his body
Valley Pike church, Situated in the village of Mt. Solon, Auto
cemetery at the
Fravel is attending county, Va .. on the C.& W. R. R. 11-3
where
gusta
it was layed by the side of his acres of land on which is a two story build
Massanutten Academy wife who proceeded him several years ing with six large porch room full langth on second
story, and a store room 20x50 ft. on first floor
ago.
also a a ten tenant house 2, smoke house,
Sunday rooms
spent of
at
He leaves three daughters, Mrs. farge chicken house, stable,& o. a fine
apple
orchard on lot, 40 bbls. this year. It is one of
at Patmos October John H. Wisman, of St. Luke, Miss the best mercantile stands in the county and
Georgie and Mary, at home and two a splendid home in excellent neighborhood
with the advantages schools, churches,
William M. of Colwell, Mo. and
osent a
There
A. M. dinner sons
is at present a stock of new
at 10 which
loss merchandise in the s
would
the
purchae
room
Samuel F. at home, to mourn of the
, service property
be sold to
the
at2.p.m. at
cost and a discount
all
of an affectionate father. of$ 100 00 froin gross in
disposed of by the
service ventory or would b
at 7 p. m.
owner. Possessions of residence given im
invited to attend Little Margaret Shockey, grand mediately on sale of the property and of the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Barnett the store room in six months thereafter; the
present owner agreeing to pay the purchaser
apples have been sold Corp, on last Friday evening gave to$ 8.33 per month rent.
Price of this valuable real state only$ 1,
here. her little friends at her grandparents 25.00; one- third cash, balance to suit pur
about ready to sow beautiful home, a grand social. After chaser. Apply at once to
J. N. DAVIS& CO.
through cutting corn. amusing themselves in many Real Est.
ways, Agts ...
Woodstock, Va.
and partaking of the fruits, cream,
colored man named cakes,& c., they made their way home
arrest and with ward, delighted with the enjoyable VIRGINIA, TO- WIT:
the Clerk's Office the Circuit Court of
two
In of
officers, one of event. Shenandoah County, on the 26th day of
discharged and Fos Mr. Jacob Hausenfluck who had August, 1905.
J. H. Savage ... ..... Complt.
He seized the fallen been working at Wildell, W. Va., re
AGAINST J In Chancery.
turned home Saturday
shot
.
was by the sec- H. B. Cariton ... ..Deft,
Mr Carle Boyer is attending school
- The officers were The object of this suit is to subject the
at the Massanutten Academy, Wood- property of the said H. B. Cariton in this
stock. County and State to the payment of Com
plajnant's debt, to- wit:$ 500.00 due by negoti
Mr. W. B. Sager has returned to able note, dated July 15th, 1905. payable 12
:" Heat No. 785.- Richmond, Va., to resume his medical days after date.
It appearing by affidavit filed that the de
policies, quick. studies.
fendant H. B. Cariton is not an inhabitant of
was president of Mr. James Richard is making ar- this State- IT IS ORDERED, That he do ap
company."- Wash- rangements to move to his new house pear here within fifteen days after due publication
hereof, and do what is necessary to
at Alonzaville. protect his interests; that a copy of this order
be published in some newspaper printed in
Shenandoah county, once a week for four successive
weeks, and a copy posted at the front
VEGETABLE SICILIAN door of the Court House of said county, on
HALL'S Renewer
the first day of the next Circuit Court.
G. HARRY HAUN Dep. c. c. c, s. c.
A Copy- Teste
G. HARRY HAUN Dep. c. c. c. s. c.
Sep. 1-4W, Williams& Bro. p. q
not
.
like your gray hair; then keep it. Perhaps;
- Hall's Hair Renewer always restores color to
If your esanot supply you, send$ 1.00 to
also
druggist
falling hair,. R. P. HALL& CO., Niabus, N. H. Oranda Institute Pursuant
executed
Begins its Eleventh Session SEPT. Hausenfluck
19th. The keynote of the institution is 398, 55
thoroughness know what you know proceed
that you know it A high moral at- highest
Millinery.
mosphere pervades. Board, tuition,
fuel, light and furnished room for session
$ 74.00 to$ 88, according to studies the
taken. For further information ad- about
Woodstock
dress W. L. DUDLEY, A. M.
Fravel
Principal, Oranda, Va.
& c.,
on which
receiving my FALL MILLINERY GOODS. After acres
Apple Butter and Cider.
tract 30
my milliner assisted by good apprentices, will be
tract 81
room to attend to my customers. First Fall offered
The
I am now prepared to make cider and State
apple butter, on Tuesday, Wednesday though
, 23d day of September. and Thursday of each week. I can of sale
made apple butter very promptly. I
Sale
have for sale a lot of whiskey barrels
style work is assured. Thanking the public for and half barrels.
Sep.
HARRIS.
and soliciting a continuance of the same, I am Aug 11-3m. 13AAC
Respectfully
Kodol
MISS R. J. RINKER.
CENTURY DISCOVERY
Taxo
TAKES THE PLACE OF CALOMEL
L. R. IRWIN,
PRICE 35 CENTS, ALL DRUGGISTS,
Tor saw by AT
