POLITICAL SITUATION
BEN CARTER WRITES ON
Washington, August 7 .-( Special.)-
When I think back over the later years
of my actual residence in Alabama and
recall myself as but little over 30 years
old, I have a conviction that somebody
was always encouraging me in
those days to speak my mind stridently
questions
It canon
the big political.
not be denied that I made noise- in
the newspapers, in the courthouse, in
curbstone to an
conventions on
-
, the
immodest extent that not even a young
person would have dared if somebody
had not seemed to hear what he was
saying. Now, if loquacity is a habit,
so it seems does the egging of other
,,
people to talk become a habit. Oth-
erwise why do I still have invitations
from Alabama now and then to write
something back to the home papers
on politics of the moment?
If it were proposed that I give The
Age- Herald a Washington view of the
political situation I should decline the
footless undertaking. It is a proverb
that Washington has no opinion worth
any practical man's considering. Government
clerks hardly go nome, on an
average, once in two years; their talk
is of local issues and leaders that, were
alive when they got their first appointments
, and which are now dead, all
of the issues and most of the men.
Congressmen spend almost a half of
their time in Washington. When we
listen to their talk we merely learn
what they think the country is thinking
. First- hand information of the
workings of the public mind is the only
kind that a live newspaper can be
supposed to want. My business, as it
happened, has taken me very often to
Chicago and St. Louis, and sometimes
to St. Paul and Detroit for several
years back, and what I offer to The
Age- Herald's readers is my experience
acquired on those travels.
Some three years ago I fancied that
I had made a discovery all my own
in these middle western states, viz:
that, outside the republican machine
and the few whom high protection
enriched, the Dingley tariff bill hardly
had a friend. I observed with much
Interest that merchants, farmers, city
business men of all classes, indeed
everybody I would talk with on the
trains who had no peculiar stake in
the tariff, was convinced that its rates
were unjustly high. The republican
leaders did not fall to take the hint.
In their national platform of 1908 they
put something that the country at large
construed as promising a revision
downward of the customs duties. In
fact after Taft's election they were
,
not slow in passing a new tariff bill.
But of what sort? The protestations
of the organization republicans that
the rates of the Payne tariff are on
the whole lower than those of the
Dingley tariff would apprise the man
from Mars that the people of the United
States believe that the new rates
are the higher. Other conditions, too,
have conspired to make the people re-
sentful of republican lawmaking. Only
a few weeks ago a thousand or so car-
cases of Australian mutton were landed
in New York- un initial venture in
a business which has reached enormous
proportions in England. This meat was
sold in New York some 2 cents a pound
below the ruling prices of American
sheep; but not a mother's son in eith-
er house of Congress ventured to move
a new increase of the duty in the name
of the sheep industry of Ohio and Mon-
tana and Wyoming. If this had happened
four years ago the Aldriches and
Cannons and Paynes and Dicks and
Heyburns would have howled for a
higher duty.( Notwithstanding the exorbitant
protection of the Dingley bill
there are not as many sheep in this
country as there
were 10 years ago.
How many there will be 10 years from
this day, if protection shall still be
of the prohibitive order, God
only
knows.) As it is, no republican oracle
is now heard to say that a cheap lamb
chop makes a cheap man.
If it were true that Aldrich and Payne
I have reduced tariff taxation and that the
republican administration in Congress
is guiltless of all the impositions against
which the consumer cries out, it is nothing
to the point. The people at large
I believe that this Aldrich- Payne contrivance
a" tariff for extortion," but
especially is that if there were no high
| protection the necessaries of life would
be at reasonable prices. It will be
strange if these convictions do not speak
in the election returns of next Novem-
ber.
The most remarkable development of
these two years in the politics of the
middle west, that probably which gives
the republican managers more anxiety
than any other, is the popularity and
power of Judson Harmon, governor of
Ohio. Let me now relate some little
facts suggestive of the strength of this
man in his own state.
In September, 1908, I traveled from
Chicago to Washington in the same
sleeping car with four Ohio republicans,
two being Cincinnati merchants( one a
Jew, the other a Gentile) one a manu-
,
facturer of some kind of machinery at
Columbus, and the fourth a business
man of some description from Spring-
field. There was another man aboard,
a democrat, who had moved from Cin-
cinnati to Chicago, and seemed to be a
friend of the Gentile merchant from the
latter city. This friend was joking the
other about the probable prespocts of
the republican candidate for governor
of Ohio, but finally the other put the
laugh on the Chicago man by saying
he was going to vote for Harmon, and
that the latter would surely be elected.
The other Cincinnati man expressed
himself to identically the same effect.
The Columbus man said he was going
to vote for Harmon, but it was not
clear to him how the election would go.
The Springfield man would not say how
he expected to vote, but did say that
Harmon would undoubtedly be elected.
We know that Harmon was elected by
some 19,000 votes, notwithstanding that
Taft on the same day carried the state
by a plurality of 69,591. Last December I
traveled over this ground again. Among
the other passengers on the same sleeping
car there were again four Ohio republicans
. Three were lawyers, two from
Cincinnati, and one from somewhere in
the Cleveland region. Akron, I belleve;
the fourth was from Springfield and well
acquainted, as it transpired, with the
man from that town whom I had met
the year before. I asked him did he
know how his friend voted in the end.
He said he did because they talked the
matter over several times and reached
the same decision: they would stand by
their party that time and vote the
straight ticket from Harris down. He
added that both are resolved to vote for
Harmon for re- election this I
year.
asked one of the Cincinnati lawyers
whether Harmon would be renominated.
He said he was" afraid" he would be.
Why" afraid." I inquired. He explained
that Harmon's victory of the year before
was a great thing for his reputation and
that he( the speaker) should be sorry
to see him risk a loss of prestige by another
race when the chances would not
be so much in his favor. I suggested
that, whatever the temporary issues may
be, no weak or unknown man could beat
a candidate so well known and so virile
as Harmon and I asked whom could the
,
republicans pick with any confidence.
The Cincinnatian admitted that this
would be a hard search. I next asked
what element of votes would cause Har-
mon's defeat another time, and so felt
licensed to inquire of his vote. He replied
that he had voted for Harmon before
, and would vote for him again, no
matter whom the republicans might
nominate. In this declaration the two
other lawyers joined. I came out of that
discussion with a pretty confident belief
that Governor Harmon, if he should accept
a second nomination, would be gov-
ernor of Ohio until the end of 1912.
Now Governor Harmon has been renominated
, and by one of the most imposing
conventions ever held in Ohio
;
and last week I traveled across that
state again. There can be no doubt that
he will be re- elected by a greatly increased
majority. A clear enough sign
of this is that the republican chiefs
haven't been able to find any man of
respectable rank in the state who would
take the nomination, except one or two
whom they could have no hope of electing
.
The fates have given Judson Harmon a
wonderful power to bring democrats into
accord, as well outside as within his
state. The fates, that is to say, have
given this man some uncommon opportunities
to demonstrate his unshakable
faith in some things that all democrats
profess to believe. There is no secret
about it, except the secret that smaller
men, no more and no less ambitious than
Harmon, are slow to learn- namely, that
no public man( almost none) can go very
far on the mere profession of sound principles
. Harmon, in speech and action, is
simple and straightforward; but above
all the nature of the man forbids that his
action shall not fit his words.
There is a sort of family likeness between
Harmon and Governor
Hughes,
though the Ohian gets the ear of independent
voters, and thoughtful men of the
opposing party in a way that seems somehow
denied to Hughes. Each of these
is the son of a Baptist preacher, and
grew up in a small town a stranger to
all affluence, holding the beliefs of earnest
country boys that patriotism- sanity
and justice in the making of laws, with
honesty in their administration- is a thing
for active practice by the people's agents,
not mere copy book texts.
The country first knew of Harmon as a
corporation lawyer. This was when Mr.
Cleveland chose him for Attorney General
. But the country soon learned not to
expect him to be soft toward corporations
and combinations of corporations.
The most conspicuous achievements of
his administration were the decisions of
the supreme court in the trans- Missouri
Freight association, Freight Traffic association
and Addyston Pipe company
cases, condemning two of the railroad
pools and the other, for the first time,
breaking up a manufacturers' trust. After
Harmon was Attorney General, and before
he was named for governor of his
state, he held two other conspicuous stations
. He was a commissioner, appointed
by President Roosevelt, to investigate re-
bating by railroads, and after full and
fair probing he declared that the Santa
Fe railroad system and Paul Morton, then
in Mr. Roosevelt's cabinet, had broken
the law, and should be indicted; but the
President would not have it so, and Har-
mon resigned his commission. He was
also for some of those years receiver
of the Cincinnati, Hamilton and Dayton
and Pere Marquette railroad systems,
and his methods of putting those concerns
on their feet again won the highest
praise from jurists and financiers alike.
Appealing now from Ohians to outlanders
. I will give you a few expressions
regarding Harmon's qualities for national
leadership.
Alabamians know that few public men
served the cause of free silver in 1906
so effectively as did Joseph F. Johnston,
now your junfor senator. He won his
nomination for governor by forcing the
free- coinage issue at a time when politicians
in other states were nosing in every
direction for the breezes of public opin-
fon. Senator Johnston has very recently
said to me:" Harmon would be a capital
nominee for President. Surely none could
stronger."
view from the opposite
be
Now, for a
angle. Within 10 days I have talked with
a chief officer of a great railroad company
, who, beginning with 1898, has been
voting the republican presidential ticket,
and who presided over a republican state
convention two years ago. He said:" I
should vote for Harmon against Taft
or Roosevelt or any other man the republicans
might name." Within this same
short period I have also had a chance
to exchange opinions with one of the most
consecrated among Bryan's friends of the
inmost circle. He, too, spoke of the paramount
eligibility of Harmon. More than
this, he said that if the sniping of the
Commoner newspaper at Harmon does
not stop. Mr. Bryan will hear something
not entirely pleasant from his most loyal
supporters. Of the other school again is
a friend of mine formerly of much influence
in the democratic organization in
Tennessee. I have seen him also quite
recently Sick of the democratic futili-
ties of. 1908. quite as sick probably of
the Patterson- Carmack feud in his own
state, he said to me he feared he should
be driven into the republican party. The
one thing, he added, that could restore his
hope of democratic success and nerve his
arm for the campaign again, would be the
nomination of Harmon for President.
Something, of course, must be said
of Harmon's performances as governor
- said with a consciousness that
newspaper space needs to be grudged.
Ohio has a comparative small debt,
and therefore supports a great many
institutions, charitable, educational, reformatory
and semi- industrial.
Even
under the present economical regime
these institutions cost the state from
$ 8,000,000 to$ 10,000,000 a year. The
disbursements
80 fixed that
the
are
state has for months at a time large
accumulations of revenue. In the old,
easy times the states treasurers deposited
these accumulations in banks
that had, in a party sense, acquired
merit. This was deemed
fair in those
times and it was amiably assumed that
the treasurer was not gaining
anything
for himself. Governor Harmon
had a theory of the law which required
that this should be investigated. The
investigation showed that, while the
state treasury had received nothing for
these large deposits, two of the treasurers
had received from the banks an
aggregate, as interest, of some$ 325,-
000. Harmon, over all manner of obstructions
by republican managers, has
brought about the indictment of those
thrifty gentlemen.
The treasurers used to have something
of a free hand but years ago a
law was passed requiring that all state
funds be deposited at interest, to the
state's account, in banks, leaving still
to the treasurer almost unlimited choice
of depositaries. Naturally the banker
friends of the organization got the
large shares of the moneys and got
them at the very easy rates. When Gov-
ernor Harmon came in he caused the
treasurer( the one democrat elected
with him) to invite bids from the
banks, naming rates of interest to be
paid for two classes of accounts, recognized
respectfully as active and inactive
. It is not worth while to tell
of the appeals of democratic bankers
for favor in this connection. The result
speaks for itself. Under the rule
of the republican governors the state
had received, as interest on the bat-
ances of its check accounts, an average
of 12 per cent a year. It now receives
an average of 2 per cent. On
the long- time deposits, comparatively
speaking, the state now receives an
average of 3 1-10 per cent a year. The
best that the republican officers had
done
was something under 2½
per
cent.
Under a succession of republican governors
the public printer was able to
collect from the state treasury by false
vouchers some$ 60,000. Governor Har-
mon dug up this fact and the
late
printer is now in the penitentiary.
To administer its many institutions
Ohio was a complicated and wasteful
system of commissions and the like.
Harmon has the idea of any other
good business man that if the functions
of these commissioners were centered
in one board there would be a
large gain to the people, not merely
in economy but in efficiency as well.
But the legislature, all the while, was
republican; and, during two sessions,
the republican machine has in a large
measure blocked this dimunition of ot-
ficers. So much the better, of course,
for Harmon and his second candidacy.
This alone, no doubt, would put him
in the state house for a second time.
There is also an archaic system of as-
sessments and taxation in Ohio which
Governor Harmon has striven to cure.
There are state boards, far too many,
commissioned to fix various privilege
taxes; and assessments and other tax
rates are governed largely by county
officers. Naturally there has been a
wide diversity as well as recurrent confusion
and litigation in the assessments
and the rates. Governor Harmon, immediately
upon his inauguration, urged
upon the legislature a system which
would make the law clear and prevent
these inequalities. The legislature then
dared to ignore his plan.
At the ses-
sfon recently adjourned the solons
yielded to the governor in a small
measure; they consolidated some of the
administrative boards and provisionally
named a lower tax rate, which, on the
fair assessments now assured, will undoubtedly
yield ample revenue.
Everybody in Ohio knows that what
Governor Harmon has accomplished in
law reform he has won from the fears
alone of the republican organization.
This is the reason that republican leaders
no longer expect to put him out of
office.
Twenty- four years ago Judson Har-
mon and Joseph B. Foraker were sitting
together in Cincinnati as superior court
Judges. A little later Harmon resigned.
His successor was William H. Taft. When
Harmon was appointed Attorney General
of the United States the judges and law-
Cincinnati gave a dinner in his
vers in Cincinnati gave a dinner in his
cuit judge there, said something of his
democratic neighbor which some still believe
to be the happiest thing
. Here
ever
spoken by the President of this day
is a sentence from Judge Taft's speech:
" Born and brought up in this community
, taught by his parents that
everything in this country was within the
reach of the man who would honestly
strive after it, of vigorous mind and body,
even temper, good digestion, the softest
and the stoutest heart, Judson Harmon
has moved onward and upward, with no
man to grudge him a single honor which
he has won."
Governor Harmon's way of dealing with
the riot situation at Newark the self.
day was thoroughly typical of himself.
He had one of the most ungrateful responsibilities
that can fall on a
ernor; but he met it as a faithful governor
will. He concluded that he had the
power to remove the city officers
had failed to protect a prisoner against who a
mob; and, having the power, he did not
shirk the duty. There is nothing
an
American community is more sensitive
about than the independence of its local
officers. I can well remember that the
late Governor Seay suffered to the end in
some parts of Alabama for merely writing
a sharp letter to a sheriff who had let a
mob lynch a prisoner.
One more straw from the Ohio winds
and I stop. I have- I hope I shall always
have- a fair number of friends
among the democratic congressmen from
the south.
I have also a friendly acquaintance
with a very able man, a republican
, alert, vigorous and loyal in
championship of his party, hailing from
Ohio. I sa with this man and the Georgia
congressman one day within six
weeks.
The Georgian told us he had
been talking with another republican from
Ohio, who had said that Harmon will
probably the
beat republicans this time
100,000 votes. The comment of our Chlo
friend was:" He'll not do that, but he is
going to beat us good and plenty.
BEN CARTER".
