SURGING MOB LYNCHES
WHITE MAN AND NEGRO
( CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1)
the negro but without avail, and when
Cairo was reached Davis was taken in
charge by a part of the mob while the
rest rushed the negro rapidly to the
scene of action.
The mob after the negro was so
large that it covered the entire country
from Kernak to Vienna, Ills., a distance
of about 16 miles. When found
by the mob the negro was handcuffed
between the two officers and they were
lying on the bank of a creek. All three
were so weak from hunger and exposure
that they were not able to
make much resistance. Sheriff Davis
tonight said that he deplored the lynch,
ing and made every possible resistance
in his power but that the crowd was
O large that he could do absolutely
nothing.
He said that after leaving the train
at Dongola night he made an effort
to get a last rig but found it impossible to
find one as the farmers knew the crime
the negro had committed. The sheriff's
party could hardly get anything to eat.
At every point toward which he headed
in an attempt to board a train the sheriff
was blocked by a mob.
Mob Gets the News.
James was found about 5 o'clock this
afternoon and the news was sent along
the line to the scattered mob to board the
Big Four train and meet the party with
the prisoner at Belknap, which was done.
The negro was taken off at Tenth street
and marched through the principal streets
of the city to the arch at Eighth and
Commercial streets. While in custody of
the mob at Belknap, and coming down on
the train, the negro would not tell about
the crime, but when he stood under the
arch he weakened and said Arthur Alex-
ander was implicated in the crime.
The body was burned at the spot where
the crime was committed while a crowd of
10,000 looked on and danced in glee. The
mob came very near getting off the
train before it reached the city and lynching
James, but it was finally decided to
bring the negro into Cairo and give the
people here a chance to help with the
work. The mob was so large here that
the resistance of the officers was fruitless
.
Negro's Confession.
The negro James has been in Cairo off
and on for several days. He came here
from the south. He said before being
lynched that an assault had been committed
on the girl before she was murdered
and that Arthur Alexander helped
him with the crime.
Mayor Parsons has sent to Springfield
for state troops. Relatives of the murdered
girl helped with the lynching and
they were backed up by a big crowd of
women.
Miss Pelley was an orphan girl 22 years
old. Her home was formerly at Anna,
Ill. For two years she had made her
home with her sister, Mrs. John Coffman,
of Cairo. She was employed as a sales
girl,
On Monday evening she left the store at
6 o'clock and walked with her chum,
Ella Dollan, as far as Miss Dollan's home,
1303 Commercial street. She took a Hol-
brook car at Fourteenth and Washington
streets. It was raining and to avoid a
muddy stretch of sidewalk she left the
car at Twenty- eighth and Elm streets instead
of Sycamore street, as was her custom
.
The finding of the handle of her umbrella
in the front yard of the residence
of Harry Lipe, 424 Twenty- sixth street,
three doors from the Coffman home, indicates
that this was where she was first
attacked.
It is supposed that when she was confronted
she struck the man with her umbrella
and the handle flew into the yard.
It is believed that the man thrust a gag
into her mouth and carried her back to
Elm street and half a block to the alley.
Strangled to Death.
Marks on the ground showed that she
was dragged 75 feet to the spot where she
was strangled to death.
Her fearfully bruised and lacerated
throat and face show that she fought desperately
.
The alley is very narrow, barely wide
enough for a wagon to pass through,
and is little used. It was after 8 o'clock
the next morning before the body was
found.
Katherine Boreen, 3 years old, daughter
of W. Boreen, crossing the alley to visit
her grandmother, came upon the body
Tuesday morning and rank back to call
her father.
Miss Pelley's clothing was almost completely
torn from her body. The deep
prints of the fingers that had throttled
her were on her throat.
Beside the body were her hat and her
broken umbrella.
Not far away was found her book, of
street car tickets. Some post cards she
had been carrying in her hand were torn
in two. Her handbag and a dress pattern
she had purchased were gone.
Negro Saved Once.
That the" Frog," as James was known,
did not hang from the Hustlers' arch, at
Eighth and Commercial streets, last night
was due to the cleverness of Chief of
Police Egan and Sheriff Davis in getting
him out of the city. The departure of a
northbound Illinois Central train at 7:15
was well- timed to the carrying out of
their plans.
At that hour scarcely a score of men
were about the station. He was hustled
into the patrol wagon and the wagon was
dashing up Twelfth street before the
watchers realized what had happened.
They started on a run after it.
Sheriff Davis and Deputy Fuller had arranged
to have the train stopped at
Fourteenth street. The wagon and the
train reached Fourteenth street at the
same time. The sheriff and his deputy
and the trainmen were on the steps ready
to assist Chief Egan and his men, but the
wagon had distanced the pursuers.
James was hurried on board and the
train pulled out as the first of the pursuers
arrived.
Before the rear lights of the train were
out of sight a dozen men were hurrying
up to the telephones on the second floor
of the freight house neaby, and were
calling Mounds and Anna. One of the
men called a friend at Mounds and urged
him to notify the people at Anna that
the negro was on the train.
When connection with Anna was obtained
a man there was told to organize
a mob to take James from the train.
Sending Word to. Country.
Chief Egan and his men left the train
at Cairo Junction. The destination of
Sheriff Davis and his prisoner was supposed
to be Murphreesboro or Carbon-
dale, but a telegram informed him that
a mob was gathering at Anna and he
left the train at Dongola, and drove in the
direction of Mill creek on the Mobile
and Ohio railroad.
A crowd of several hundred was at
the depot at Anna, the former home of
Miss Pelley, when the train reached
there, but no attempt was made to search
the train for the negro. The mob in front
of the Cairo police station refused to
believe that the negro was not there.
Two men were selected to look through
the station cells.
They were told they could not do so
until Chief Egan returned. When Chief
Egan returned a demand was made. J.
O. Pelley, a brother of the murdered
girl, made his way to the chief and said:
" Chief, I am a brother of the girl. I
want to look through the cells."
Pelley and another man were permitted
to go through. While they were searching
, the mob outside made a rush into
the police station. Chief Egan and his
men made a stand at the door of the cell
and stopped the rush there.
A mob of 200 men late this afternoon
seized a freight train on the Big Four
railroad here and started for Frank,
27 miles away, near which place Sheriff
Davis, Deputy Fuller and the negro,
Will James, were in hiding in the woods.
The sheriff was seen at Karnak by
Philip Pretorious, a Cairo lumberman.
Sheriff Is Located.
The sheriff bought food and went down
the Big Four track. A train passed
through Karnak a little later and the
conductor telegraphed back from the next
station briefly that he had seen the deputy
and the handcuffed negro beside the
railroad track a mile beyond Karnak.
When the telegram was received by
the brothers of Miss Pelley that the
trio were in the woods here, a box car
train was quickly made up and departed
for Karnak filled with men. These
men brought the girl's slayer back to
Cairo.
Four arrests were made by the police
here Tuesday night after six bloodhounds
had led the police from where Miss
Pelley met death to a shack. A ne-
gress named Green, tenant of the shack,
and three negroes, Will James, Arthur
Alexander and Will Thomas, were arrested
. Later all but James were released
.
Bloodhounds were tried on James early
Wednesday morning and their evidence
pointed to him, nor could he account for
his whereabouts at the time Miss Pelley
was killed. The city jail was stormed
several times Wednesday, and Wednes-
day evening James was hurried from
city. the
