SOUTHERN GLEANINGS.
Reminiscences of Ben Hill of Georgia.
A Southern correspondent relates the fol-
owing incidents in the career of the late
senator Ben II. Hill: In 1855 Mr. Hill declared
himself a candidate for congress in the
Fourth Congressional District, and at an in-
ormal meeting of representatives the
of
Whig party, held in the town of Newman, his
Pandidacy was indorsed. In this campaign
Mr. Hill was in reality the candidate of the
American or" Knownothing" party, which
had just taken shape in Georgia. He was opposed
by ex- Chief Justice Hiram Warner, of
Greenville, who ran as the nominee of the
Democratic party. The race was warm and
closely contested. Warner winning by the
trifling majority of 66 votes in a district which,
prior to that time, was accustomed to roll
up a democratic majority of 2,500 votes. In
1856 Hill was placed on the electoral ticket
for that Millard his wonderful Fillmore powers. It was on during the" hustings this year"
were first shown to the best advantage, he
having met and vanquished both Alexander
H. Stephens and Robert Toombs in debate
in
the town of Lexington, Oglethorpe
County. Toombs didn't care to fight him,
but Stephens was so incensed at the
new great man who had literally laid him out
on his own stamping ground that he forthwith
challenged him. In reply Hill wrote that
celebrated note which is now a part of the
political history of the State. It was in these
words:" I will not fight you. I have a con
Scie ce and a family. You have neither." In
1858 Hill was retained to defend William A.
Choice, who killed the bailiff, Webb, at Atlan-
ta. The case is reported in 34 Georgia, and is
famous. Bill Choice, as he was called, was a
man of good education and marked talent,
belonging to one of the best families of Rome,
Ga. While on a visit to Atlanta he got on a
spree, and while drinking with some fiends
in the bar of the old Atlanta Hotel, which
then stood where the Kimball House now
stands, James Webb, the justice court bailiff,
handed him a notice showing that he had
been sued for$ 10. This so enraged Choice
that he attempted to punish Webb on the
spot, but was prevented by bystanders.
Early the following morning, fresh from the
night's debauch, Choice walked into Prior
street, and, seeing Webb standing on the opposite
side of the street, several hundred feet
away, drew his pistol, and having taken deliberate
aim, shot him down without the
est
slight-
warning. The town was in an uproar in
a few minutes, and many of the best citizens
were so outraged at the act that they
declared for lynch law. Choice defied the
ficers, saying that he would kill the first man of
who laid hands upon him. He was finally
captured by strategy and safely lodged in the
lock- up just before the howling mob, clamorous
for his blood, reached the station- house.
Many able lawyers were engaged to defend
him, young Hill among the number. Public
opinion was against the prisoner. The defense
pleaded insanity, and after the longest
and most exciting trial in the annals of Ful
ton County, the prisoner was convicted. Hill
had thrown his whole soul into the case, and
was bent upon saving his client. In those
days the pardoning power was vested in the
State Senate. Hill went back to Troup County
, made the Choice case an issue in the campaign
, and was elected to the state Senate,
where he made his celebrated speech for the
pardon of Choice. Of this remarkable effort,
State Senator William Harris, of Worth County
, once said:" It was the grandest effort that
ever fell from human lips. Mrs. Choice, the
good and lovely mother of the prisoner, dressed
in the deepest black, leaned upon the arm
of young filí, as, pale, slender, and thoughtful
, he walked down the aisle. The galleries
were packed, and the excitement was smothered
but intense. Hili spoke many hours.
His tongue seemed' to drop manua,' for surely
such exquisite strains of pathos never fell up
on the air. The Senate was in tears. The President
wept aloud. The women screamed. I
shall carry to the grave two sentences of that
marvelous speech. They ring in my ears even
now, and that scene was enacted twenty- five
years ago. He said, speaking of Choice's insanity
: Soft as the zephyr from the orange
grove, carrying the prayer of an angel, the
spirit of Webb will whisper in your ear Spare
him for he knows not what he did.' And
again: If you hang William H. Choice, in
scribe upon the gallows in letters of blood,
that all time may syllable the shame, this is
Georgia's Lunatic Asylum." Choice was declared
insane by an overwhelming vote and
sent to the asylum. Hill was the ablest and
bitterest opponent in Georgia of the reconstruction
measures, and at the peril of expatriation
, delivered a speech of the boldest
and most fiery invective in Davies' Hall at
Atlanta in 1866, in which he denounced the
United States authorities and fiercely vituperated
and defied the Nothern
diery, who, accompanied by their sol- of-
ficers, formed part of the audience. Toombs,
Stephens, Jenkins, and other public men had
been asked to address the people on the
situation, bat Hill alone had the audacity to
speak his sentiments in public. He continued
his opposition to reconstruction by writing
his" Notes on the Situation" -which are
regarded in the South as the finest philippies
since those of Demosthenes- and at a vast
meeting of the people of Georgia, held at At-
lanta in 1868, he gave utterance to his celebrated
Bush Arbor invective, in which he not
only advocated the social ostracism of Republicans
in Georgia, but advised their own
Bob
Toombs spoke at the same time and place,
wives to
and at the conclusion of Hill's speech Toombs
arose in the presence of the vast crowd and
congratulated him, saying:" Sir, it was the
grandest effort I ever heard." Bullock fled the
State in 1871, and upon the coming into power
of the Democrats, in 1872, Hill, Gordon, and
Stephens offered for the Senate. Gordon was
elected. Upon the death of McMillan, of the
Ninth Congressional District, Hill, who lived
part of the time at Athens, in that district,
became a candidate for the nomination. The
convention broke up in a row, and Hill made
the race before the people, beating his opponent
, Estes. His term having expired, he was
renominated and returned to Congress with
out opposition. In 1876, while still in Congress,
he antagonized Norwood for the United States
Senatorship. The people held meetings in.
various parts of the State, urging the Legislature
to elect Hul, and he made a three- hour
speech, advocating his claims in a masterly
manner, and then left for Washington. Nor
wood remained in Atlanta, buttonholing
the members. The galleries were crowded
during the three days' balloting,
and the populace were for Hill. Nor-
wood held his own pretty well, but the
pressure was too great, and on the third day,
a Norwood man changed his vote to Hill, the
Norwood men stampeded, and enough votes
were changed to give Hill the prize. The Republicans
and negroes in the Legislature voted
for Hill. It has often been said that in
known that of the great men of this country
his favorite
gave the best definition of the trae orator
( not excepting that of Demosthenes) the correspondent
ever heard. He said:" The true
orator is he who has the intelleet to see the
truth the heart to feel it, and the courage to
,
speak it." How could a definition be more
concise or comprehensive? Mr. Hill was dis-
tinguished in civil as well as criminal law,
and received the largest fee ever paid to a
lawyer in Georgia in a single case. It was
$ 50,000, paid by Thomas Metcalf, one of the
wealthiest men of Augusta, in a cotton claim
argued by Hill in the United States Court
case at Savannah just after the war ..
