A dispatch from Shubuta, Miss., says:
News continues to come slowly from the
seat of war in Choctaw. The latest and
best confirmed is that John Sims, a brother
Bob, who has not hereto-
Tore participated in Bob's
vagaries
and lawlessness, was arrested
ate Saturday evening, because letters
found in Bob's house and in the pockets of
One of the Savage boys implicated him. It
s believed he was lynched before his custodians
reached the jail with him. Jim
Moseley, a Sims follower, was also
arrested and was in great danger of
being lynched. He was tried by the vigilantes
and it seems that nothing could be
proven against him and that he succeeded
in convincing the vigilantes that he had
quit the Sims gang before any of the atrocities
were committed. He told them that
Jim Sims, who was killed at
Bladon Springs while rescuing Bob from
the United States marshal, was the man
who killed preacher Carroll some time before
the Bladon tragedy. Jim Sims came
to Moseley and brought him to assist
in the assassination of Carroll, but
Moseley. intending to quit the Sims
gang, succeeded in pleading the sickness
of his wife. Carroll was killed
that night, and Moseley dared not expose
the slayer. After renouncing the Sims
Greed, and promising solemnly to reform
and become a good citizen, Moseley was
released.
Neal Sims has never been heard from.
Sims's wife and daughters were under arrest
a day and night, but were released.
Mrs. Sims promises to reform and live as
other eitizens. She says she never approved
Siais's course, but dared not oppose or leave
him, for fear of her life. It is believed Mc-
Millan, Utsey and Miss McKenzie will
cover. re-
THREATS OF NEAL SIMS.
Says He Will Wreak Vengeance on the Slayers
of His Notorious Brother Bob.
MOBILE, Ala., Dec. 28 .-- Terrible scenes
are being enacted in Choctaw county. The
eitizens are wrought up to such a pitch of
excitement that a war of extermination is
being waged against the Sims gang. Since
Christmas two more of the deluded people
have been hoisted to death at the rope's
end. As announced yesterday, John Sims,
a brother of Bob Sims, and Moseley Sims,
Bob's nephew, were lynched on Saturday,
and the regulators are in pursuit of a negro
who is reported to have taken part in the
McMillan masacre of Dec. 23. When caught
he will be strung up. The most alarming
thing about the situation is that Neal Sims,
a brother of Bob, who rescued the latter
from the deputy marshal at Baden Springs,
in Choctaw county, Aug. 20 last, is still at
large and determined to avenge Bob's
death. Neal is a desperate man. He firm-
Jy believes that his brother was a prophet
of God's choosing and had divine sanction
to kill off the devil's agents, namely, the
officers of the law. Neal Sims collected
forty of the phrophet's followers and sent
word Sunday that he intended to assault
and burn the village of Womack Hill before
the night of that day. The people are
greatly excited, and all of Sunday were
massing at Womack Hill to defend the
place. Up to this time Neal has carried
out his threat. not
