A MURDEROUS JAP.
Tragedy at Ogden, Utah- Japanese Walter
Commits a Murderous Assault Upon a
Woman, a Former Employer, and Suffers
Death at the Hands of a Mob- Hung in a
Fire- bell Tower.
OGDEN, U. T., April 21.
The usual quiet that prevails in this city
after eleven o'clock at night was broken
shortly after that hour Saturday evening
by the report of pistol shots coming
from the Gem Restaurant. There
was great excitement when it was
discovered that the proprietress, Mrs.
had and
Gudgell, been assaulted
mortally wounded by a Japanese
waiter who had formerly been in her employ
, but who had been dismissed a few
days previous for drunkenness. The
Japanese entered the place, walked
to the apartment that is curtained
off in the rear of the main room
fronting on Fourth street and called for
Mrs. Gudgell to come in there. The lady
responded, and was asked to reinstate the
discharged employe. Upon being refused
this request, he became exasperated and
attacked the lady in a violent manner. A
struggle ensued by the lady's attempt to
free herself from him and to get out of
the room.
She finally succeeded, and ran into the
front room and started out at the door,
when the Japanese drew a" bulldog" revolver
of medium caliber and fired, the
ball entering her back and penetrating
her lung. The lady rushed out on the
street, hotly pursued by the infuriated
rascal, firing five shots at her in quick
succession, four of which took effect.
One ball is lodged in the left lung, which
it is impossible to probe. Another made a
slight flesh wound on the breast, while
the others took effect in the thighs,
crushing the bone of the
right
leg in a frightful manner. The
daughter of the wounded lady rushed
out frantic with grief crying for help,
which soon brought a large crowd of excited
spectators to the scene. The lady
had only been able to get a few steps
from the door of the restaurant after receiving
the first wound before she fell
upon the walk exhausted. The fiend had
followed her closely all the time, taking
every opportunity to fire, and it was after
she lay exhausted on the pavement that
he stood over her and fired the two shots
that mangled her limbs so horribly. After
emptying every cell of his deadly weapon
he started to run, turning into the
alley just below Main away street. Officers Bal-
lyntine and Brown happened to be in the
vacant lot at the back of the block, and
hearing the reports had started for the
place from which they emanated. The
then frightened man rushed right into
officer James Brown's arms, and said,
" Here, I have killed that woman on
for
Toth
W
etroot
handing the
and am to hang
it," at the same time
over to the officer. He was immediately
taken into custody, but this in no wise
allayed the feeling of the mob that was
fast gathering. He was placed in jail and
the woman was cared for by friends.
This morning just before daylight
a mob of twenty or twenty- five men
called at the jail and aroused
the keeper. He demanded to know what
they wanted, which was soon made known
to him by a demand for the keys to the
cell in which the prisoner was confined.
They were peremptorily refused the keys,
whereupon two or three of the mob broke
the lock to the door and secured the murderer
while others stood guard. At this
juncture the officers appeared at the outside
of the jail- yard, but were covered by
weapons in the hands of those standing
guard, and told not to come any farther.
A gag was placed over the culprit's
mouth and he was taken to the tower upon
which the fire bell hangs. The rope
was placed around his neck. He was
drawn up four or five times and finally
left to hang until six o'clock in the
morning, when he was cut down and
taken in charge by the city sexton.
The murderous wretch was looked upon
in his capacity of waiter as an agreeable
and obliging person, but it was plain
to be seen that something of a fiendish
nature lurked under this. He was the
only Japanese in town, and it was presumed
that the solitary life he was leading
caused him to take periodical sprees, one
of which he had been on for the past two
weeks. Mrs. Gudgell spoke highly of
him as a waiter and expressed regret
at his leaving her abruptly some
time ago. She had in the meantime filled
his place, and could not take him back
when he called Saturday evening. It is
said that he came here recently from Tus-
, Nev., and that a brother of his
suffered carora the same fate that he has ..
