LYNCHIN Congress ALL BE
PROBED 10 LIMIT
SAYS THE GOVERNOR
Special Grand Jury Ordered
to Consider Case- Governor
Issues Statement
Denouncing Actions
Montgomery, January 4 .-( Special)
" The people of Alabama must under
stand that their protection comes not from
a mob of cowardly lynchers, influenced
by passion or prejudice, but only from
the majestic supremacy of the law, under
which alone their rights of persoa
and property can be protected.".
With this statement, the governor of
Alabama expresses in no uncertain terms
his opinion of mob violence, and specially
declares his feeling regarding the lynching
of Will Smith and Ed Smith, two
negroes who were taken from the We
tumpka jail early this morning and hung
to a tree. The negroes were charged with
the murder of R. A. Stillwell a promi-
,
nent Elmore county farmer, who was
killed last Wednesday. The negroes'
bodies were found by members of the
Alabama National Guard, who were ordered
cut by the governor to protect their
lives, near the scene of the alleged murder
.
Informed of Attack
The governor was informed of the at
tack on the Wetumpka jail about 2
o clock last night, whereupon he immedi-
how.ately ordered Gen. J. B. Scully adjutant
,
general, to call out the local military
and at once proceed with all haste to the
assistance of the Elmore officers. Automobiles
were secured, and in less than an
hour 30 members of the local militia were
on their way to Wetumpka. They arrived
too late to protect the
negroes
from mob violence.
The militia accomplished nothing except
to arrest three white men on suspicion
. They were lodged in the We-
tumpka jall, under strong guard and
special grand jury, ordered by the governor
, will tomorrow investigate the
charges against them as well as the
crime. A special term of the Elmore
circuit court will be at once convened
by order of the governor to try the guilty
parties.
The lynching of the two negroes just a
few miles from Montgomery
outraged
the governor, and this afternoon he is
sued a strong statement regarding the
crime. Those who have undertaken to
perform the functions of judge jury and
,
executioner have brought merited re-
proach upon our state," declares the governor
." The history of every state in
the union shows that mob or lynch law
coes not check, but onty mereases crime.
There is absolutely no justification for
lynch law in Alabama. We have courts
and laws amply sufficient to bring the
guilty parties to justice. The men who
were parties to this lynching have
brought reproach upon the state, and as
long as I am governor all the power of
my office will be used to bring them to
justice ..
New Law Needed
" This dastardly crime committed just
upon the eve of the assembling of the
state legislature accentuates the import-
er.ce of their taking such measures as
may be necessary to make lynching impossible
in Alabama. The men who lead
n'obs are generally those who have no
respect for law or authority, who are
cowardly and unwilling to face real danger
and yet by their lawless acts do not
hesitate to bring the blush of shame to
every honest and patriotic citizen of the
state.
" I am grat'fled to know that the enlightened
public sentiment of the state
no longer tolerates mob or lynch law. If
crimes are committed they can be punished
by the courts and the administration
of justice should not be entrusted
to a band of cowardly miscreants, who
are willing, in order to gratify their
prejudice or passions, to bring ruin and
cenfusion upon the state.
" It may be that the grand jury of El
more county will refuse to inalct or the
petit jury to convict. I have the consolation
of knowing that I have discharged
ny duty under my oath of office, and I
Invoke the support of every citizen of
Alabama who is opposed to the mob and
who believe that our civilization has not
yet proven a failure and that the rights
of and property In this state can
still person be protected by law."
