killing of a goat owned by one of the Ital-
lans by Dr. Hodges. The first attack came
from one of the Italians, but it was not a
murderous attack, as the man had no weapon
. Dr. Hodges had a pistol and used it in
self- defense, as he had a right to do, first
beating his assailant on the head with the
butt of it and then returning a shot that
was fired at him. The shooting drew a
crowd and the mob did the rest. The first
cry" Lynch them." Two of the Ital-
lans was were lynched immediately, and three
But with so small a white population in
the midst of such an overwhelming majority
of negroes" a strong hand" has been deemed
necessary to keep the latter in subjection;
and, accordingly, in causes arising between
whites and negroes the most summary
method is resorted to rather than the ordinary
slow processes of the law. When a
planter was killed by a negro in 1894 nine
negroes were lynched for it, and but a short
time ago a negro was lynched for shooting
at a white man. The Tallulah affair has
brought out the fact that there have been
several recent lynchings in Madison which
the papers did not report- one only two
months ago at Omega. When the Italians
first came into Madison, a few years ago,
they were a puzzle to the white people of
the parish. Like the bat, they were difficult
to classify, and this was more difficult because
they dealt mainly with the negroes,
and associated with them nearly on terms of
equality. They could, therefore, hardly be
classed as" white men," and yet they certainly
were not negroes. Just how to treat
them was a difficult preblem. It has finally
been setttled. They are to get the justice
awarded to a negro in Madison who assaults
or shoots at or kills a white man- lynching;
not a trial.
This is the key to the whole affair. The
lynching occurred on the 20th of July last,
and the first account of it represented that
the Italians had conspired to murder one
Dr. Hodges and had actually inflicted fatal
wounds upon him." The five victims," said
the first dispatch," were strung up to trees
for supposed connection with a plot to murder
Dr. Hodges, a prominent physician of
the place," who, it was added," is badly
wounded and the doctors say he cannot
recover." He was not badly wounded and
is still alive. The affray between him
the Italians grew out of a quarrel over and the
