Extends to the North as Well as the
South- Lynching Incidents
.
Rev. D. A. Graham preached two sermons
yesterday at Bethel A. M. E. Church
on" American Justice." The sermons were
given in compliance with a request made
by the National Afro- American Council.
which is now taking up the race problem
Mr.
with great earnestness of purpose.
Graham had large audiences at both the
morning and evening services. For his
morning discourse he took the text," Do
justice to the afflicted and needy," and
said, in part:
" The American negro is afflicted and the
cause of his affliction is a most unreasonable
and silly prejudice in the white Amer-
icans. If the hatred were reversed it would
seem more reasonable, since the Caucasian
has suffered nothing from the negro, while
the latter has suffered everything at the
hands of the Caucasian. While this prejudice
is greatest in the South, it also manifests
itself greatly to the affliction of the
colored man in the North. When he wants
to buy property or rent a house he is often
turned away because of his color. When he
seeks employment where help is advertised
for he is often told that' negroes need not
apply. Our girls cannot get employment
in shops, stores or factories, no matter how
well educated, refined and good- looking.
Naturally these conditions cause many to
fall into evil ways, and make dishonest men
of youths who, with a man's chance, would
have become honorable and industrious citizens
. But when we cross Mason and Dixon's
line the evil shows itself at every turn.
There are separate waiting rooms at the
railway stations, separate ticket windows,
separate cars and nothing to eat at any
lunch counter for the colored man. The
negro is refused admission to churches,
cemeteries and even parks in some cities.
How can the colored youth ever learn to
look upon himself as a man when he is constantly
treated as a brute? To the Southern
whites the manly, refined negro is the
most despicable, because he tries to act
white,' while the ignorant fellow who
dances jigs and acts the monkey on the
streets is the good old darkey of antebellum
days.' The disfranchisement of the
negroes in the South is not the worst evil.
If the authorities require an educational
qualification would for all voters we would
