PRINCESS ANNE, Md., June 9.- William
Andrews, a young negro accused of felonious
assault on Mrs. Benjamin T. Kel-
ley, was taken from the sheriff here today
, beaten into insensibility, and then
hanged to a tree by an infuriated mob,
immediately after having been arraigned in
court and sentenced to death for his crime.
Andrews, who was but twenty years old,
came here from North Carolina, and on
May 5 of this year was arrested for assault
on Mrs. Kelley. At that time a mob
endeavored to lynch him, but he was taken
hurriedly to Baltimore and confined in the
jail in that city until last night, when he
was brought here for trial. Shortly before
noon Andrews was taken from the jail to
the courthouse and arraigned before Judge
Page to plead. He was thoroughly fright-
ened, and in a trembling voice pleaded guilty
. Judge Page then sentenced him to be
hanged and Sheriff Nelson, together with
Deputy Sheriff Dryden, started to remove
the prisoner to the jail. Just as they
reached the outer door some one shouted:
" Come on, boys, let's take the nigger,"
and a rush was made for the sheriff and
his deputy. Blow after blow with clubs,
bludgeons and pistol butts were rained
upon the head of the prisoner, in spite of
the efforts of the officers to shield him.
Judge Page ran out of the courtroom and
implored the crowd to wait and let justice
take its course, but he might as well have
talked to the wind. The sheriff and his
deputy were soon overpowered, and then
the crowd pounced on the negro, threw him
to the ground and kicked him into complete
insensibility. Meantime a rope had
been procured and picking up the inanimate
figure the mob placed the rope around
the neck of the dying man and dragging
the body to a tree within a hundred yards
of the courthouse door, threw the rope
over a limb and swung the body into the
air. Then a dozen bullets were fired into
the body, and it was left dangling until
the coroner ordered it cut down. No attempt
at disguise was made by any of
who participated in the lynching." those
