HOW DR. RYDER DIED.
Georgia Mob Sheds White Blood as
Quickly as Black.
ATLANTA, Ga., July 20.- Dispatches received
from Talbotton to- day confirm the
reported lynching near there last night of
Dr. W. L. Ryder, who murdered Miss Sallie
Emma Owen at Talbotton a
year ago.
When the case against Ryder was called
yesterday Judge Hart, on the evidence that
the leading counsel for Ryder could not be
present on account of sickness, continued
the case until the regular term in Septem-
ber. Ryder was to have been returned to
Muscogee jail on the 8:20 p. m. train and
was taken to Waverly Hall, the nearest
station from Talbotton, for that purpose.
A few minutes after the deputies arrived at
the station a mob took the prisoner. from
the officers and returned with him to a
point just across the county line and there
lynched him. His body was found hanging
from a limb at an early hour this morning.
Deputy Sheriff Murphy, who was in charge
of the prisoner, says that in the company
of Mr. Boswell and Dr. Ryder. he reached
Waverly Hall just before dark in a carriage
, and that the prisoner was seated
in the rear seat. He sat on the left of
Ryder and Boswell on the seat in front.
Just after dark Boswell, who was looking
out of the carriage window, exclaimed:
" Look out; there is a man on a horse.
There they come!" he shouted, and in an
instant the two deputies were on the ground
and round themselves covered by pistols.
The mob ordered them to throw
up their hands and deliver their
pistols. This Murphy he
says refused
to do at first, but his pistol
was
snatched from his hands. Then he began
to plead with the crowd for the safety
of the prisoner, but was immediately ordered
to shut up. Ryder made but little
resistance to the mob, and while they were
dragging him from the carriage did not
utter a word. The prisoner was placed in
another carriage and driven back to Tal-
bot county and hung to a tree just over
the line in Talbot county, near the house
of J. C. Willis. The mob while returning
with Ryder from Waverly Hall was met
by Sheriff Richards and his posse, but owing
to the darkness the sheriff could not
distinguish the persons, nor gain any clew
to their identity. Richards was informed
by the men who had Ryder in charge that
he was too late. He pushed on to Waverly
Hall only to find that he had been misled.
The action of the mob is ascribed to indignation
of the people at the case being
continued. It is also said that the friends
of the prosecution had given up all hope of
ever bringing Ryder the gallows by reason
of his being insane to.
