BISMARCK, N. D., Nov. 14.- Alex. Cou-
dot, Indian half- breed, Paul Holytrack
and Philip Ireland, full- blooded Indians,
the first of whom was sentenced to death
for the murder of six members of the
Spicer family last February, and had just
been granted a new trial by the Supreme
Court, and the latter two self- confessed
accessories in the murder, were taken from
the county jail in Emmons county last
night and lynched by a mob. The lynching
had been apparently coolly planned and
was carried out without a break in the pro-
gramme. Sudden and swift retribution
was meted out by the mob to the murderers
. Williamsport, where the hanging took
place, is about forty miles from this city
and off the railroad. The news of the hanging
was received here this afternoon when
a mounted messenger arrived, his horse in
a foam from a swift ride, and announced
that the three men had been lynched. The
sheriff of the county, Peter Shier, was in
this city at the time the hanging occurred,
and it was to him that the messenger rode
in such hot haste. The men had been under
the custody of Deputy Sheriff Kelley,
and they were taken from under his control
by the mob and hanged to a beef
windlass several hundred yards from the
jail, where their bodies were still swinging
when the messenger left, the coroner
not having arrived and no one else volunteering
to cut them down.
There were about forty men concerned in
the lynching. They rode into Williamsport
on horseback late at night and tethered
their horses a short distance from the city
that they might secure them again as
speedily as necessary after the deed was
done. The jail in which the prisoners were
confined is a substantial stone structure,
and was in charge of Deputy Sheriff Thos.
Kelley. Since the confinement of the prisoners
therein so great has been the fear
they might escape in some way that one
man has watched all night within the jail.
Last night Kelley was on watch. There
was a meting of the Lodge of Woodmen in
a building near the jail, and as Kelley was
a member he expected to meet some of the
brethren after the meting had adjourned.
To while away the time during the night
hours he was playing solitaire in front of
the cells in which the murderers were
fined. con-
MURDERERS LYNCHED
