Mr. Clouds was asked.
" When the affair occurred it shocked the
people, chiefly because of the surprise of
it. The rougher element was amazed, stupefied
, and still remains quiet. If there are
any people inclined to be revengeful on account
of the killing of the five men they
are inactive, and will probably do nothing.
The better class of people looked upon the
lynching as necessary, and they feel that
no mistake was made."
Do you mean that the better class approves
" the lynchings?"
THE LYNCHING APPROVED
BEST PEOPLE THOUGHT IT JUSTIFIED
, SAYS REV. MR. CLOUDS.
Causes That Led Up to It- Mob Composed
Largely of Conservative
German Citizens.
Rev. George C. Clouds, a Methodist minister
from Osgood, is here attending the In-
diana Conference. He it was who preached
the funerals of four of the men recently
lynched Versailles. He was asked yesterday
about at the experience.
from them."
" How generally was it known that these
men were to be lynched, before the night of
the lynching?"
Of course I cannot say as to that. But
I" have heard since that it was generally
in the future; but the effect is certainly
good at the present. There seems to be an
absolute certainty in the convictions of the
people that the right men were killed. They
are positive that the strength of the gang
that has terrorized the county for years is
gone, and are as certain that they will not
be bothered by the gang again. And it
would seem that remaining members of the
gang are likewise convinced, for it is said
that two or three of them have skipped out.
At any rate, two or three citizens have
quietly departed, and rumor has it that
they went away in order not to figure as
in another lynching party.
principals" Business has been resumed and quiet is
have settled most thickly. The Germans are
considered among the best citizens of the
county. They are quiet and orderly and
conservative. It must have been a strong
motive which could have moved them to organize
and take the lives of five men. They
must have had intense provocation."
" What will be the effect of the lynchings
on the community?" Mr. Clouds was asked.
" I would not to hazard a guess on
what it will be morally like, or what it will be
mitted. The discipline under which the
men who did the lynching acted seems to
strengthen the belief that there were many
Germans in the body. As a nation they
well drilled and well disciplined. Many are of
