History of Indiana Lynchings.
Jeffersonville dispatch in Louisville Courier-
Journal.
Until Saturday morning Scott was the
only one of a group of nine counties-
Lawrence, Orange, Jackson, Scott, Clark,
Floyd, Harrison, Crawford, which surround
Washington county- which had not been the
scene of work by mobs. Until that time the
little Democratic stronghold had escaped a
tarnished name, and it was only a few
months ago that Colonel Charles L. Jewett
had a long article in a prominent law journal
on the quick and just punishment meted
out by Scott county courts to criminals.
Few of its citizens have been confined in the
prisons, and these were quickly convicted
after their crimes had been committed.
Saturday morning's work completes the
chain of lynchings or white- cappings in the
eight counties surrounding Washington.
In 1868 the Renos were lynched at Sey-
mour and New Albany- in Jackson and
Floyd counties. At Charlestown, in Clark
county, in 1871,' Squire Taylor, Charles
Davis and William Johnson were hanged by
" vigilants" for the alleged killing of the
Parks family, although to this day no evidence
that the accused were guilty has
been found. The law dealt with part of the
Archer gang, of Orange county, while a mob
ended the career of another portion of the
outlaws somewhere about 1886, for taking an
innocent old peddler to a cave, near West
Baden, shooting him full of bullets. saturating
his body with coal oil and burning it.
On a bridge near Salem, Washington county
. Delos Heffren was hanged in 1873 for
killing a customer at his saloon.
Lawrence county had its mob, known to
be composed of people belonging in that
county, Washington and Orange, that did
its work with a firm hand. This same organization
, on June 21, 1877, issued a manifesto
against what it termed the Bent Jones
organized band of murderers, robbers, counterfeiters
and house- burners, causing an excitement
never before known in the locality.
The" white- cappings" in Harrison and
Crawford counties were but different methods
of dealing with real and alleged lawbreakers
, and more than one man in each
county met his doom. In one instance a sapling
was bent down, one end of a rope was
attached to the bended tree and the other
to the victim's neck, and when the rope
that held the small tree in a bow- like shape
was cut the man on whose head vengeance
was to be wreaked was sent skyward, to
come down with a broken and almost
ered neck. sev-
