FOUR NEGROES LYNCHED.
Whites Trying to Ria Arkansas of the
Colored Vote.
LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Jan. 8.- Four colored
men have been lynched in the vicinity
of Bearden, Ark., within the last few days.
Two were rapists and two murderers. The
ravishers, Devoe and Huntley, were swung
up near Harlow Mill ranch, about three
miles north of Bearden, while the murderers
met their fate near the town of Little
Bay, a few miles south of Bearden. The
work was done by two separate mobs and,
according to reports from Fordyce, near the
scene, the quadruple lynching created little
excitement. Devoe and Huntley were
lynched for a crime committed a year ago.
At that time they attempted to outrage
a Mrs. Paine, a respectable white woman at
Bearden. Both negroes escaped after their
crime and remained out of the vicinity for
twelve months. A few days ago Devoe again
put in an appearance, but was promptly
arrested. A mob was quickly gathered and-
Devoe barely escaped lynching at that time.
He was on the witness stand, but refused
to give any information at first. He finally
stated that Huntley was working at Ander-
son's mill, on the Cotton- belt Railroad,
about twenty miles north of Fordyce. Devoe
was left in charge of a heavy guard near
Bearden, while the remainder of the mob
went to Anderson's mill to get Huntley.
They found their man and started away
with him, but they never reached Bear-
den with the negro. He was lynched after
leaving Anderson's mill. When the mob returned
to Bearden they gave out the report
that Huntley could not be found.
Devoe was then placed in a wagon and
the mob started with him to Harlow Mill
ranch, three miles north of Bearden, where
the crime was committed, in order that
his victim might identify him. When the
mob left Bearden with Devoe the prisoner
was chained to the bottom of the wagon
and a heavy guard surrounded the vehicle.
Escape under such circumstances was impossible
. When taken before Mrs. Paine
the old lady positively identified Devoe as
one of the negroes who had attempted an
assault upon her. The posse then drove a
short distance away and, after placing a
rope around Devoe's neck, compelled him
to stand erect in the wagon. The vehicle
was then driven from under him and the
ravisher was left swinging in midair. A
few shots were fired into his body and the
mob returned to Bearden. Mrs. Paine, the
victim of the two negroes, was a respectable
white woman, eighty years old. She
was prostrated by the excitement caused
by the assault and only recovered after a
long illness.
The two other men lynched were accused
of the murder of Bart Frederick, a water
pumper for the Cotton- belt road at Kings-
land, a few days ago. Frederick was thrown
from his velocipede and murdered. His
pockets were rifled and his watch taken.
It was through the watch that a clew to
the identity of the murderers was secured.
The negroes left the timepiece at a store.
The two murderers were captured near Little
Bay. Details of this lynching are not
obtainable, but it is reported that three
negroes were captured and that two were
hanged. The third was wanted at Kings-
land on another charge and was turned
to the sheriff of Cleveland county. over
