THE" BOCHES" IN GEORGIA
O In spite of the direct personal pleading of President Wilson to the
white Americans, that they would everywhere uphold and respect the
majesty of the law, and stop the damnable savage pastime of the white
South- the lynching of human beings; there still remains, everywhere in
Dixie a cowardly gang of white men, under disguise of loyal and patriotic
citizens, who continue to mob helpless members of the Race. This week,
a gang of these savage white cattle, down in old hell- ridden Georgia, at
Macon, the hot- bed for" red- necks,"" hill billies"" red shirts" and" crackers",
a member of the Race, ALLEGED to have committed a serious crime in the
community, was lynched by a mob of white men.
President Wison said such persons who would so mock the principles
for which America is fighting, as to join a mob to lynch a human being,
was unworthy of the citizenship of America. But old polluted Georgia, the
native state of the President's first wife, laughs to scorn the president's
request, rises up on their hind legs, shakes their clenched fist in the president's
face, and like unChristianized and barbarous Texas and Mississippi,
both which have engaged in this chief sport of the white south since the
president's utterance, swings up a defenseless member of the Rac.
The news of these brutish crimes, committed by white Americans against
black Americans, over here in the" Land of the free and home of the
brave," and to be informed, that these black- hearted, bloody white- skin pusillanimous
scoundrels are rated as full- fledged American citizens, old Kaiser
Bill smiles a golden smile of satisfaction, because of the agents' work-
every lyncher is an agent for the kaiser. Black Americans are fighting
and dying" over there" that France, England and Belgium might be freed
from this sort of savagery at the hands of the brutes of Germany, while the
white brutes of America, over here, are keeping up the German brutality.
Is this the way the white citizens of Georgia prove they are 100 per
cent Americans? Is lynching a helpless Black American their interpretation
of standing squarely behind the president? There can be no two" opinions"
on this matter- the lynchers must be crushed, they are of the same ilk as the
bomb thrower, I. W. W., and German spy- these white American lynchers
represent the pro- German, pacifists and open enemies to our" win the war"
program. The time is ripe for every true red- blooded white American to come
to taw, and" clear their conscience" by uniting against this barbarous past
time of the" red neck" element of the white race.
America now faces a test of loyalty. We are deeper into the war; all
American people over here, must be united, that we might be strong- white
and black. Americans over here must create a oneness of purpose. This
cannot until the" Boches" among us are crushed by the force of fair
play, and come equal justice for black Americans.- Exchange.
