Some Suggestions For Advancement
of Lynching
By Unbiased Writer
( By Associated Negro Press)
NEW YORK, Dec. 17.- What, in
your opinion, should be the lowest
age at which a Negro could be lynched
without destroying our best traditions
?
Georgia, always in the van for innovation
, has just completed, with its
usual taste for finish, the dispatch of
a nine- year- old. The boy was hauled
through the streets by a rope and then
carefully and chivalrously shot.
Now this gives rise to several questions
in the matter of lynching, and
we feel that the art can take its place
with other purely American customs,
which, so we understand, is the envy
of the whole European continent and
has already taken its immortal niche
in Madame Tussaud's Waxworks.
Our third- degree system has been
brought to a perfect state. We know
that our police force can be depended
upon to deliver the goods and our
American pride is satisfied with that
department of democracy. But in our
lynchings we still seem to be groping
around in haphazard fashion. One
state, for instance, will take up the
fashion of burning a Negro in oil,
another will merely hang him and
then, when the rope seems about
ready to stifle his breath, shoot him
in order to end his sufferings. This
is a compromise, we feel, with the
original spirit of our national conscience
. Again, other parts of the
republic have seen fit to declare holidays
when the lynchings were larger
than ordinary and women as well as
men were scheduled to furnish the
amusement.
The latter plan, it seems to us, approaches
nearer, in a spiritual way.
to the best things in lynchings. But
there is a drawback even to this, for
in the states where it has been done,
while thousands were given the
chance to enjoy the spectacle, the
children could not be present, as the
cotton mills did not close down during
the executions. However, that is
a mere detail and no donht the ingenuity
of our public officials will
rectify the oversight.
But how shall we determine the
minimum age?
At nine, as Georgia has selected, the
Negro child, it seems to us, offers little
attraction as a lynchee. In the
first place, a child at that age is too
easily killed and the sport ends much
too quickly. Why, dragging a mere
child over cobblestones is apt to kill
it before the tree or lampost is
reached, and what then? Disappointment
for all concerned and probably
a long walk back to the house, with
the dinner grown cold for practically
nothing.
We believe the proper way to lynch
a child, assuming that the Georgian
age is a good one at which to begin,
would be to hand the youngster over
to the white children for practice.
Let them take the victim into a
school yard, for example, where the
see- saws and other toys are placed.
The Colored boy might be placed under
one end of the see- saw which
.
could then be raised and allowed to
fall upon his head. After he comes
back to consciousness, the act could
be repeated until the white children
tire of this, when, let us sav. a good
object lesson in biblical history be
adopted to bring the afternoon to a
hanny and satisfying end.
With the proner instructors, our
children would then grow into manhood
and womanhood with an export
knowledge of the risiness and be
capable of getting everything out of
lvnching that, is possible. Not only
the pure iov of the whole thing, but
the unanestionahlv, with the assistance
of some ex- Y. M. C. A. directors
who lost their jobs on getting hack
from France, the commercial instinct
would be fostered, and the children
tanght to treat a corpse in such a wav
that portions could be sold as souvenirs
to those whose age does not permit
them to attend the event. As a
suggestion, a good ear or portions of
the sealn, an arm or a foot might be
syndicated to the Maxon Telegraph,
the Chattanooga Times, or the At-
lanta Constitution for photographic
reproduction and the children thus
tanght to earn their own pin money.
We have no desire to be the supreme
arbiter in this matter and our
columns are open to suggestions for
the advancement and improvement of
lvnching. But we do believe our citizens
should he taught these matters
in their youth as an educational fundamental
. We offer this suggestion
to the boards of education and to
Boy Scouts and Campfire Girls. the
