MURDERERS.
THE BEDFORD for
THEIR ARREST FIERCE RESISTANCE OF
BACHTEL THE EXAMINATION- COMMITTAL
THE PRISONERS- NO DANGER FROM
OF
JUDGE LYNCH- PUBLIC SENTIMENT.
[ By Telegraph to the Sentinel.]
Bachtel 113
IND Feb. 4.- George
BEDFORD,.,
and Arthur Bissot, the murderers of George
G. Carney, were arrested at Olney, Ill., on the
2d inst. In making the arrests the marshal
of Olney and a Cincinnati drummer came
very near losing their lives. Bachtel, who
is a desperate character, shot four times at the
the marshal and twice at the drummer the
before he would surrender. Bissot surrendered
without showing fight. They were
securely bound and brought to Mitchell last
night by the deputy sheriff with a posse of
men brought here. They were received
at the depot by about four hundred men, out
boys, women, etc., all anxious to see the
bloody demons, but I am glad to say that
there was no disposition what-
manifested toward lynching.
ever
They were taken before Esquire Rector and,
waiving a preliminary examination, were on
then conducted to jail to await the action of of
the grand jury, which does not convene until
May next. I have been told by those
who had them in charge that they do not
deny the killing of Carney. The verdict
before the coroner's jury was that they confessed
to four different persons the killing. to
Bachtel is one of the worst men that has
ever lived in this county. He is a noted
robber and desperado, but this is the first
time he has ever been accused of the terrible
crime of murder. Bissot is a mere boy and
an industrious, hardworking lad, but for
some time he has been a boon companion of
Bachtel's, and has doubtless been with him
a
in some of his former robberies. There
is a full determination on the part of the$
citizens to have dealt to these young men the
full plenty of the law executed by a court of
justice, but from all that I can learn from
conferring with the citizens, there is no
danger whatever of a mob's lynching them
I 810 satisfied that the citizens here.
