-0-
OKLAHOMA'S CIVIL WAR
The American Negro is no longer" docile and easily lynched,"
as Mr. Dooley once described him. He is asserting his right to
live under the white man's law and have the privileges and immunities
and guarantees of that law. So long as he is denied
that right in whole or in part the way is open to the repteition
of such tragedies as that which cost so many lives and destroyed
$ 1,500,000 in property at Tulsa, Okla.
The civil war that took place in that city between whites and
blacks had its origin in lynch law. A Negro had attacked a white
girl in the elevator of a department store and was arrested. Immediately
the rumor spread that he was to be lynched. Negroes
with arms went to the jail to protect him. White men with arms
followed them. The police did nothing. Then a white man tried
to seize a gun from a Negro and what then took place is described
for the World's readers by Richard Lloyd Jones, publisher of the
Tulsa Tribune:
" The blacks were reinforced by other blacks. The whites
hurried for arms. The city was in darkness. Stores having
firearms in stock were smashed into. The blacks and the whites
in growling groups began to parade the street. Two hours before
midnight the battle began."
Government ceased for the time being to exist and the
streets of Tulsa ran with blood. But in vast sections of the
country government has a habit of ceasing to exist where the
legal rights of the Negro are concerned. Had the offense in
question been committed by a white man the law would presum-
ably taken its course. Although white men are sometimes lynched
when accused of crime, the general presumption is that they
will not be. Although black men are often not. lynched when
accused of crime, the general presumption in many parts of the
United States is that they are likely to be. Out of that presumption
came Tulsa's race war.
A great change has come over the American Negro's attitude
toward the white man's government during the last four years
-a change for which the war was largely responsible. The Negro
was conscripted like any other citizen. He was put into a
uniform, given a rifle and sent to France to fight for his country.
He was good enough to die for the flag, and naturally he refuses
longer to believe that he is not entitled to privileges and immunities
for which the flag stands. He is no longer submissive
but aggressive, and while this change has its grave dangers to
the Negro himself, it is an inevitable consequence of the failure
of local and state governments to administer evenhanded justice.
It is the fashion to attribute most of the recent race riots
to economic rivalry between whites and blacks, but economic
rivalry is no new thing. For more than fifty years there has
been an irrepressible conflict between the blacks and the so- called
" poor whites", and this conflict is bound to go on as long as the
two races compete for their daily bread. Rivalry, however, is
not riot, and back of all these minature civil wars which disgrace
the nation from year to year is the breakdown of government and
the denial of due process of law to the Negro.
Lincoln said that this government could not endure half
slave and half free. It cannot endure with one law for the white
man and another law for the black man. There must be one law
for both, and until there is one law for both every community
of mixed population is living under the shadow of threatened
anarchy. New York World.
- -0
