3,500 LYNCHINGS IN 35 YEARS
IS RECORD OF UNITED STATES, AVERS
LYNCHING MUST GO OR ELSE ---
( By the Associated Negro Press)
Washington, D. C., April 14 .-" I do not believe that you or
any other members of the committee on judiciary will want to
see the adjournment of the present session of Congress without
reporting an anti- lynching bill."
The foregoing ringing declaration comes from Senator Medill
McCormick of Illinois, in a letter of clear- cut and frank statements
on the subject of anti- lynching legislation.
Senator McCormick, it will be recalled, introduced a bill early
in the present session, urging federal action against lynching.
Senator Curtis of Kansas, also, introduced a bill. It is plain to be
seen from Senator McCormick's letter that what he desires most
of all is action. As one of the most prominent members of the
senate, and one of the steering committee, Senator McCormick
may be regarded as speaking with authority. The Senator's letter
was addressed to Senator Knute Nelson, chairman of the judiciary
committee, and follows:
3,500 Lynchings in 35 Years.
" I venture to call your attention to the two bills introduced
on April 12, 1921, during the extraordinary session of Congress,
by Senator Spencer and myself, and the House( Dyer) bill, read
and referred to your committee on January 27th- of this year. At
the same time I may note that during the 66th Congress I introduced
on the 24th of March, and Senator Spencer introduced on
the 21st of the following April, bills like those introduced by us
during the extraordinary session of the present congress.
" The measures, all of them seek to put an end to lynching,
which continues in this country, a blot upon our civilization, a
menace to all law and to all constituted authority. I do not seek
to argue the respective merits of the several bills to which I have
referred, or to labour the question of constitutionality in connection
with the Dyer bill." I am willing to support any anti- lyniching
bill which the committee will report and I do not doubt that Senator
Spencer is of the same mind. I write to urge consideration of
the bills and action by the committee.
" During the last thirty- five years there have been nearly
3500 lynchings in the United States. Whatever may be true of the
past, today lynching and race rioting is not a local or sectional,
but a national issue. During the last two or three years there
have been lynchings, as there have been outbreaks of violence,
between mobs of both races, from the Lakes to the Gulf and
from the Missouri to the Atlantic. I do not believe that you or the
other members of the committee on Judiciary will want to see the
adjournment of the present session of congress without reporting
an anti- lynching bill. Our common conscience and common judgment
demand that Congress act to stamp out lynching."
Lynch Law Must Go.
" LYNCH LAW MUST GO!" That slogan is being universally
adopted by editors and various organizations as the call to
action on this important legislation. It has been recommended
that this slogan be placed conspicuously in the newspapers and
kept there until final passage of the bill. There has never
a bill in which Colored Americans are more vitally interested been.
