WHAT IT SPRANG FROM.
The Occurences That Led to the Killing
of the Italians.
NEW ORLEANS, March 14.- The follow-
ing is given as the statement of the
which led to the
actuating causes
tragedy enacted this morning:
On October 1, 1890, about 11 o'clock
at night, D. C. Hennessy, chief of
police of this city, going from his office
to his home, was waylaid and shot to
pieces by a band of Italian assassins,
armed with such blunderbusses as
could only have been made and used for
the purpose of assassination.
The indignation and excitement was
such that mob law and lynching were
about to be resorted to. The entire
community felt that in the endeavor to
capture the guilty parties innocent
Italians be sacrificed. To allay
the excitement might the mayor of the city
appointed a committee of fifty representative
citizens to take charge of the
investigation and to aid in the trial and
conviction of the assassins. The committee
entered upon the work and at a
mass meeting subsequently held in
front of the city hall the actions of the
committee were ratified and they were
encouraged to continue their labors and
secure prosecution and a trial by the
courts
After. months of preparation and a
trial which continued three weeks, and
in which distinguished counsel assisted
the able District Attorney, the jury,
charged to have been bribed and corrupted
, in face of established guilt, rendered
a verdict of mis- trial as to three of
the assassins and acquitted three others;
three more were on trial and were acquitted
because of insufficient evidence.
The acquittal of Macheca, the chief
conspirator, and of Marchesi and Bag-
netto, and the mis- trial as to Politz,
Scoffedi and Monastero fell like a
thunderbolt upon the community and
impressed law- abiding citizens with the
conviction that the law had been violated
and that the verdict invited assassination
and endorsed Italian murderers.
This feeling increased till it found vent
in the mass meeting this morning at 10
o'clock, which resulted in the summary
of the murderers at the hands
execution of the people.
