FAVIA RECALLED
The Italian Minister Will
Over the Lynching of the
New Orleans Assassins,
AND ATTEMPTS A GAME OF BLUFF.
Secretary Blaine Called Upon and Presented
the Letter of Recall of Minister
Favia- The King Does Not Think the
United States is Taking as Prompt
Course as it Ought in Bringing to
Punishment the Leaders of the Lynching
Party that Made Short Shift o
the Hennessey Murderers- Interesting
Opinions of Men and Newspapers
Throughout Various the Country.
WASHINGTON, March 31.- With an
official note dated today, Baron Favia,
the Italian Minister, has declared to
the Secretary of State that the United
States Government not having given
assurances that the murderers of Italian
subjects acquited by American magistrates
, and murdered in prison while
under the immediate protection of the
authorities of New Orleans would be
,
brought to justice, the Italian Government
has found itself under the very
painful necessity of showing openly its
dissatisfaction by recalling the Minister
of his majesty from the United States.
The Baron will soon leave the United
States, leaving the Secretary of the
Legation in charge of only current af-
fairs.
action by the Italian Government
This caused the deepest surprise in
official circles here. It has been generally
supposed the Italian Government
would at least await the action of the
New Orleans grand jury, which is
charged with the investigation of the
episode.
It appears that information received
from its representatives must have led
the Government to the conclusion
the grand jury investigation would that fail
to result in the punishment of
any
son connected with the killing. per-
The letter of Governor Nichols in re-
ply to Secretary Blaine was also, the
the real point at issue- reparation for
minister thought, regarded as evasive of
the alleged wrong- and the Governor's
assurances that further bloodshed woula
not follow, unaccompanied by any excuse
for the failure of the State or municipal
authorities to take precaution to
prevent the killing, is regarded by the
Italian Government with extreme dissatisfaction
. It appears that the United
States Government had exhausted its
resources,
The relations between the National
Government and Government of the
States were so fixed the by the American
Constitution that when the Italian Min-
ister, obeying the commands of his Government
, sought for some assurances
that persons concerned the killing of
its subjects would be punished in, it was
to give any definite assurances of the
not possible for the general Government
kind.
It could, and did, point to the fact
that the Grand Jury was the American
provision for calling before the bar of
justice persons who had violated the
law of the land. But this particular
Grand Jury was called together
the laws of the sovereign State of Louis- under
pun- would not it and whether or iana,
ish according to the Italian idea of justice
was something no national official,
from the President down could
, guarantee
, and the Italian Government was
not satisfied with such views.
With the relations between the State
and national governments, and the peculiarities
of our constitutional system
of government, it had nothing to do,
but it was necessary, according to its
views, that Italian citizens in foreign
countries should be accorded the full
measure of protection fixed by the laws
of these countries.
Here was a case where, according to
the statement of the Mimister, Italian
subjects had been arrested on a charge
of crime and acquitted by an American
jury according to the forms of American
law. Three men were decided innocent
and had been slain by an angry mob.
The Italian Government could not go
behind the verdict of the American
, and notwithstanding it was stated
court in some quarters that the men were re-
ally guilty of foul assassination and had
the eye of the Italian government they
been acquitted by means of bribery, in
were innocent Italian subjects, and in
their violent killing an alien people had
been outraged and insulted.
The National Government of
United States had, as stated, failed the to
give any definité assurance that reparation
would be made and there was but
one course and that was taken
when the Italian Minister notified today Sec-
retary Blaine he had been recalled be-
Government dissatisfied was cause his
with the negotiations. This is the
Italian view of the matter.
There was commotion among the
State Department officials when the
fact became known that Baron Favia
had bee .. ecalled. They did not know
it officially until late this evening.
State department officials declined to
discuss the matter. None of the
cared to be quoted in their opinions officials.
matter idea belittle no, and the to tion
There was, however, a general disposi-
that the dogs of war would be unloosed.
Favia has not demanded his passport
as first reported. There were many
steps in diplomacy, and though slight
distinctions trivial in public
view, they were appeared really full of significance
trained to diplomats.
A demand for a passport is an extreme
measure, and is only taken when
the Minister's person is in danger, at
the hands of the populace. It is also in
a degree suggestive of a menace A recall
is a serious matter. There could. be
no attempt to disguise the fact, but it
does not signify that mutual explanations
cannot restore the old status.
It can be stated positively that
events take an unforseen and improba- unless
issued for turn there will be no call ble
an extra session of Congress. One of
the serious ill effects of
most the
trouble will be the postponement of the
President's proposed Southern and
Western trip.
The Italian Government has
told that the President deplores the been ab-
horrent occurrence, and that the Gov-
deplores the ab-
the matter. Part of this investigation
ernment has taken steps to investigate
was the ascertainment of the national-
ity of the Italians killed, and this has
not yet been learned. There is no proof
whatever before the President that a
single Italian citizen was among the
victims, and such proof is absolutely
necessary.
Officers of the Department Justice
of other
other and into this inquiring still are
branches of the case. It is suspected
in administration circles that the recent
changes in the Italian Cabinet may have
much to do with the present state of
affairs.
There is no disposition to take any
hasty action on the part of this Government
Certainly Mr.Porter Unite States
.,,
Minister to Italy, will not be recalled
and this Government will maintain a
a pacific attitude and abide by the de-
velopinents of the future. It is said by
who had
gentleman has experi-
a large
ence in the diplomatic affairs of our
Government, that a declaration of war
did not necessarily follow such action as
that of the Italian Government. There
were many precedents for it, nearly all
of which, however, were among
pean nations. Through a better under- Euro-
standing of differences that exist
may
these differences are often adjusted without
recourse to arms.
So far as is recalled there have only
been a few instances where foreign
Ministers to the United States have
been recalled at the request of our Government
or been given their passports.
The first was the French Minister citizen
Jeunet, who was recalled by the
French Government at the request of
the United States because he was personally
offensive to this country. The
other case occurred at the time of the
war of 1812 with Great Britain when
the Minister from that country was
given his There
passports. are no cases
where Ministers of the United States
to a foreign country have been given a
passport, though there has been one or
more instances where Ministers appointed
were objected to by a foreign
nation. He suggested that the misun-
derstanding may have been caused by
misunderstanding the letter Governor
Nicols to Secretary Blaine. of
