Horrible Death of a Villain.
From the Auburn( Cal.) Stars and Stripes.
One of the most daring robberies and attempts
to murder ever recorded in the annals
of crime in San Francisco, was one which was
committed on Commercial street, between
Montgomery aud Kearney, on the afternoon of
the 17th day of August 1864, At half past 2
o'clock, at a time when people were constantly
passing to and fro along the Street named,
the pawn establishment of Mr. Meyers was entered
by an individual who knocked down H.
Meyers, aged 18 years, son of the proprietor,
and then helped himself to watches, diamonds
and jewelry of the value of several thourand
dollars, after which he made his oscape. For a
long time the police worked assiduously to endeavor
to discover who the perpetrator was. A
gentleman who had arrived from Los Angeles
was noticed wearing a singular piece of jewelry
which the officers thought looked very much
like part of the property stolen from Meyers'
store, and upon questioning him, ascertained
that he had purchased it from a man in Los
Angeles. The piece of jewelry was identified
by Meyers as his property. The officers obtained
the assistence of the military, and the
man for whom they were searching was arrested
near Fort Prescott, Arizona. At the time
of his arrest he had with him a carpet sack in
which there was a quantity of jewelry. The
prisoner was a tail, raw- boned individual
named John Kelly. He was a native of Indiana
and aged about 30 years. He had come to
California with the notorious Fourteenth
Regiment of of U. S. Infantry.[ This last is
a mistake: the 14th Infantry arrived in Cali-
fornia, not in 1864 nor previous to that date,
in December 1865.-ED.
but ARIZONAN
] One
.
dark night the prisoner broke out of the guardhouse
, and, before the sentinel could hail him,
Kelly leaped from the bluff into the abyss below
. The prisoner, it was supposed, had been
crushed to pieces en the rocks as he fell, but
when day broke and search was instituted for
what the searchers expected to find- the dead,
mutilated body- no trace of it could be found;
so it became evident that Kelly had not sustained
serious injury, and he had made good
his escape. Kelly was next heard of in Santa
Rita Mine, Arizona, where he was engaged as
a blacksmith. For some time he worked at
his trade, but he quarreled with the superintendent
of the mine Grosvener and tried to
,,
stab him, for which he was discharged.[ This
is another mistake: The blacksmith who at
tompted to stab Mr Grosvener, was not Kelly,
but Burch, and the attempt was made ju 1862.
The Santa Rita mine was abandoned previous
to 1864 and has not since been worked. The
following portion of the story recounts the career
of Burch, in 1862-3, but one contemporary
gives it to its readers as a recital of the adventures
of its man Kelly subsequent to the
date of the robbery on Commercial street in
San Francisco. The story would be quite interesting
if true, but the names of persons and
places and the dates at which incidents are
,
said to have transpired show that it is all a
compounded mistake. The San Francisco po-
live had, therefore, better resume the hunt for
Kelly.- ED. ARIZONAN.] From there he went
to Tubac, where he killed a man with whom he
had quarreled, and as the sympathies of the
citizens ware with the murdered man, Kelly
thought, it necessary to have that part of the
lynch law. From
escape that
country to
Place he went Chihuahua near which city
to,
he murdered his travelling companion for his
money. Several months ago he brutally murdered
a family of four persons near El Paso
Del Norte, for the sake of a few dollars,
Kelly who had acquiried the name of the
Arizonian Ruffian" arrested by
was some men
",
of the city named who wreaked their vengeance
on him. They carried him into a wood some
distance from the city, where they tied one end
of a rope to the limb of a tree, and to the
other end tied Kelly by the heels, so that his
head hung within a few feet from the ground.
They then built a slow fire under him, and allowed
him to remain suspended until
put an end to his existence, death
