LIFE SAVES RUSE
Lone Bandit in Attempt to rob Indiana Bank
Die May Whom One of
Kills Cashier and Wounds Two Others.
LOUISVILLE, Ky., Nov. 11.-J.
Hangary Fawcett, cashier of the Merchants
' National Bank of New Albany,
Ind., was killed; John K. Woodward,
president of the bank, was dangerously
wounded, and James H. Tucker, a ne-
fa-
gro chaffuer, of Louisville, was
tally wounded this morning when a
young man, partially identied as Ar-
thur Hall, a Louisville dealer in second
hand furniture, entered the bank
and after commanding every one to
throw up his hands and" get in the
vault," began shooting.
Fawcett died almost instantly after
being shot through the neck and chest.
Woodward was shot through the liver
and intestines and Tucker through the
the
and may die. Following
shocting body the murderer rushed from the
tany and tried to make his escape in wagon and giving the word to drive
an automobile which he had taken ahead. The bandit was taken to the
A few moments
from the residence of its owner. Mrs. New Albany jail.
Walter Escott, of Louisville, forcing later, to escape the mob, he was re-
the negro chauffeur at the point of a moved to the Southern Indiana re-
gun to drive him to New Albany. But formatory at Jeffersonville. There the
chauffeur, paralyzed with terror, prisoner refused to give his name and
the and apparently incapable of action, sat talked on! yander pressure.
OF PRISONER;
HIM TO PLAY DEAD
to rob Indiana Bank
Wounds Two Others.
May Die
still. The robber jumped from the car
and sent a bullet through the negro's
body. Turning down the river bank,
for a distance of two blocks, the murderer
ran at great speed.
He appropriated a skiff at the dock
and was on his way to the Kentucky
side before the frightened citizens
knew what had happened. The alarm
was given and in a short time the po-
ice of the little city started in pursuit
in a fast motor boat, captured the
man and brought hm to shore, only to
' confront the new peril of lynching.
By a clever ruse, Captain Adams stood
off a crowd of 200 that thronged the
dock. Commanding the prisoner to He
down, the captain announced that the
man had taken poison and was dead,
meanwhile carrying him to a patrol
wagon and giving the word to drive
ahead. The bandit was taken to the
A few moments
New Albany jail.
later, to escape the mob, he was removed
to the Southern Indiana reformatory
at Jeffersonville. There the
refused to give his name and
prisoner talked on! yander pressure.
