Foes Of 5 March Antilynching Bill On Heard Be To
It Must Be Embarrassing
HOW EMBARRASSING it must be for those governors
and senators making such a hard fight to prevent
the passage of the federal antilynching measure
at Washington, to have their less enlightened constituents
back home at the same time begin a new
wave of America's greatest outdoor pastime, mob
violence.
And strangely enough this seems
to be always the case. Just wher
the Bilbos, the Baileys, the Connal
lys and the Hooeys begin their most
ardent pleas against federal intervention
in lynchings holding tha
the states could well cope with the
situation, a new crop of violencer
break out back home.
It was in 1937 while Congress
was considering the Costigan- Wag
ner bill and the Southern members
were as usual making their bitte.
MACKAY
pleas in support of the right to
lynch, when at Duck Hill, Mississippi, the lynchers
took their Congressmen at their words.
ADD GRIM NEW TOUCH
Not satisfied with the usual necktie party, they
added some grim new touches such as tying the victim
to a tree and cruelly applying the white hot
blue flames of a blow torch to varicus parts of the
screaming man's body. The sadistic brutality of
that lynching even for a short while hushed up the
very vociferous Mr. Bilbo.
And there was no question about its effect in
speeding through antilynching bill the House of Representatives
and was responsible for helping to create
a majority sentiment in the Senate in favor of the
measure. Only the stubborn filibuster of those solons
from the lynching states, prevented its passage in the
higher house.
Now history repeats itself. While Senator Tom
Connally of Texas carries on his invective tirade
against the antilynching bill's supporters, the lynchers
gather right within the shadow of the nation's
capitol to inaugurate a campaign of lynch terror
against two helpless Negro women at Snow Hill,
Md.
VICTIMS ARE ARRESTED
And while Governor Hooey of North Carolina
stands on the Senate floor to decry the Wagner-
Van Nuys bill as a" vicious piece of legislation and
wholly unnecessary and undesirable," at Dunn, N.
C., Negro citizens were being subjected to the mosi
" vicious" of treatment at the hands of a mob armed
with clubs.
Did the police at Dunn arrest the members
the mob who were manhandling these innocent peo- of
ple? They did not. Instead into the jail went five
of the Negro, victims, who made the mistake of protesting
this rough disregard of their Constitutional
rights.
In the Snow Hill case, it has not even occurred
to the governor, his attorney- general or the state
troopers, who intervened that 1,000 men composing
the mob which stormed the little red brick jail to
seize the screaming mother and daughter, who were
actually violating the law.
The bruised women were taken from the jail and
were being carried to the scene where a white grocer
had lost his life, when they were rescued by four
state troopers, one of whom was injured in the ensuing
melee.
A" STATE'S RIGHTS" CASE
No one claims the women participated in the
murder. Not even the mob members contended that.
Their only crime was being related to the men suspected
of the crime. And for this they were to
be sacrificed at the altar of mob justice.
The women after being rescued were spirited
away to another jail and are still being held on
hitherto undefined charges. The men who formed
the mob in the attempted lynching, most of whom
are well known to local authorities, are still at large
and unmolested.
No effort has been made to bring them to justice
for their vile deed, and none will likely be
made as long as the" state's rights" argument can
be twisted by Southern police officials to mean the
right to lynch.
If these Southern politicians were truly sincere
in their arguments at Washington that local auhori-
ties can cope with the lynch evil, no better opportunity
for them to demonstrate the truth of
their contentions is offered than when these embarrassing
incidents arise.
MOBS GIVEN FREE REIGN
No effort, however, is made to make the best of
it. At Duck Hill, under the pressure of the
impending
antilynching bill, the governor and a grand
jury went through the motions of an investigation
that ended in no action as usual. No investigation
of any kind has been ordered at Snow Hill, thoug
the sheriff admits he knows at least forty of the
men who were in the mob. Still less has been done
at Dunn.
That is why it becomes more vitally necessary
that a federal antilynching statute be placed on the
books. The argument that states are able to deal
with lynching may be true. The problem is will they
deal with lynching? Their past record of indifference
where black life is concerned, creates a doubt
that there will be a sudden change for the
in the future. better
