CARVED HIM UP
-
Mr. Herera, arrived in this city just as wa
were going to press frota Charleston after a
doctor to go to Charleston to attend Mrs.
Garlock who was badly burned this afternoon
. The lady had accidently spilled coal
on her dress, which caught fire with the
oil result above stated.
A NEGRO BARBER AT PHENIX
TRIES
To Send Edward Hassett To
Glory By Stabbing Him
Seven Tintes
One Wound In The Abdomen
it is Thought Will
Result Fatally.
-
About& o'clock last evening a serious
cutting atay occurred in front of the Gara-
baldi saloon on Monroe street, which may re-
suit fatally to Ed. Hassett. It seems that
Massett, who is an Irishman and a laborer,
was in the company of Hul Gaisa, a Cuban
Regru, who is part proprietor of a barber
ho in the Loring build.ng. The two men
had been danking together quite freely
when a controversy arose between them, the
the exact nature of which the rerorter is un-
abt to ascertain. It is said the two men nad
been telling stories and Garse related one at
the expense of the Irish people. At this
Hasselt took umbrage, and applied some op-
probion terms to the negro, who in thin
asked Hassett its pallotany. That's none
of your d- business, you back sofa
The dileut y here
"
began by area
approaching, with a small packer kaife in
his end, toward last, the intter retreating
to the sidewalk and from there to the
sireel, Wineses vary in tacir accounts of
the i affray mom this stage of the proceedings
se claiming that Hassett geuing a rock
in event ha: 6, advanced toward Gate and
of stones
crew one the at the negro
who then made the tilt hers say that
Huset retreated from the time he emerged
Toth the saloon; that he picked up a couble
stone but did not attempt to use it until the
negro cut him on the back, when he threw
the missile over his shoulder and then turned
around when he received the cut that is
cons.d.ied so dangerous. The affray was of
very short duration, and besore any ons
could interfere Hasset had fallen in the
street, with seven wounds on his person, one
being a cut across the adubmen through
which the intestines protruded. Marshal
a fias arrived on the scene a moment after
the deed had been committed; and arrested
the assailant, who was speedily lodged in
jai .. A messenger was also despatched for
Doctor Mahoney, who promptly dressed the
wounds of the victim. All of the wounds
were superficial, except the gash across the
bowels, bnt an examination showed that
none of the intestines had been punctured,
hence recovery is possible, but extremely
doubtful during such extreme weather. Mr.
Hassel is but little known here, but has a
brother in Quijotea, to whom a telegraphic
message was sent yesterday evening. The
wounded man is suffering greatly, and has
been kept under the influence of morphine
most of the time since the affray.
The pocket knife with which Carsa made
his murderous attack, is a small one of two
blades. The largest blade, with which the
deid was committed, is but three inches in
length, it is claimed that Garsa is very
ugly when under the influence of liquor, and
that he attempted to provoke a quarrel with
another man a time before he fell in
Hasselt. short
