BIRMINGHAM REPEATED.
A Mob Attempts to Lynch a Negro Villain
at Roanoke, Va., and Is Fired Upon and
Many Killed and Wounded.
ROANOKE, Va., Sept. 21.- One of the
most dastardly crimes in the history of
the city occurred yesterday morning.
Mrs. Henry S. Bishop, aged about 50
years, from Cloverdale, 8 miles from
this city, was enticed by a colored man
named Thomas Smith from the market,
where she had come to sell produce,
into an empty saloon basement, beaten
into insensibility and robbed of her
pocketbook, containing less than 82.
The fiend was captured and lodged in
jail.
A crowd gathered around the jail
and kept increasing as night approached
. At 5 o'clock the Roanoke
Light infantry marched to the jail by
orders of Maj. Trout. Guards were
posted and the streets in the immediate
vicinity cleared. About dark the
crowd increased by 100 men from the
vicinity of the woman's home, headed
by Mrs. Bishop's son, a fireman on the
Norfolk& Western railroad.
At 8 o'clock portions of the mob battered
at a side door of the jail, where
the militia and Mayor Trout had retired
. The shooting was commenced
by the mob and the mayor shot in the
foot. The militia were then ordered
to return the fire, and a volley from
about twenty- five rifles was poured
into the mob. Seven men were killed
by this fire and many more wounded
some of them fatally.
During the excitement caused by the
volley the prisoner was taken from the
jail by an officer and secreted. The dead
and wounded were removed to a drug
store and the offices of near- by physicians
. The militia then dispersed and
left the scene as quickly as possible.
The following is a list of the dead
and injured as far as known at present:
Dead- S. A. Vick, hotel proprietor: Will
Sheets, fireman on the N.& W. railroad
Charles Whitmore, conductor on the N.& W.
railroad. J. B. Tyler, Blue Ridge: George
White, shot through the leg and bled to death:
W. Jones, engineer on the N.& W. railroad;
John W. Mills, distiller, Black Creek.
Injured- George Settles, of Vinton, mortally
wounded; Otto Falls, shot through the body,
will die; Will Eddie, shot through groin. Tomley
Nelson. leg off: Leroy White, shot in back; J.
B. McGhee, shot in the leg; -- Shepherd,
shot in the leg: E. J. Smith, shot in the abdomen
: George O., shot in the head;
Frank Mills, shot Monroe in leg.
