Colorado's Governor Loses No Time
Offering Aid to the Sheriff.
DENVER, Col., March 13.- Governor Me-
Intyre to- day received simultaneously from
the authorities at Washington and the
Italian consul at this point inquiries concerning
the Walsenberg lynching. The communication
from Washington was a tele-
grom from the acting Secretary of State
asking for particulars and that from acting
italian Consul Cuneo, at this point, a demand
for protection for any Italian citizens
who might be in danger in Walsen-
berg. Immediately steps were taken by the
Governor to comply, with both requests and
telegrams were sent out to the sheriff of
Huerfano county, the Governor directing a
telegram demanding full particulars of what
had occurred together with a statement of
the feeling at the moment prevalent. To
Washington the Governor telegraphed all
the particulars he then had and promised
the fullest protection to all. He also
stated that it is probable the Italians
lynched are American citizens; that he had
directed the sheriff to protect his prisoners
and maintain order, and that he had a
report from the colonel commanding the
hearest place that he could put troops
aboard cars in two hours. Quickly following
the sending of these dispatches went
others to Pueblo. One was to the commander
of the military forces stationed
there and the other to the railroad company
. The militia officer was ordered to
report immediately and exactly on what
notice he could put his command in the
field, and the railroad authorities were
asked in what length of time a special train
I could be furnished and sent to the scene
of the riots. It was found that within
three hours of an order issuing the Pueblo
troops could be landed in Waisenburg.
Following is a copy of the communication
passing between Governor McIntyre's department
and the acting Italian consul, the
first be.ng from Mr. Cuneo:
Sir:" Replying to your communication of
at or near the town of Walsenburg, Col.,
this morning, about 2 o'clock, two italians
were taken from the jail by a mob and
lynched, and also that there are seven
more men supposed to Italians still in the
custody of the authorities of Hue, fano county
, who are threatened to be treated in like
manner. Therefore, I, Joseph Cuneo, acting
Italian consul for this district, call on
you, as Governor of the State, take such
steps as may be necessary to insure protection
for the life and property of the Italians
in custody of the authorities in the said
Huertano county."
The Governor replied as follows:
" Sir: eplying to your communication of
March 13, 1895, just received, I have the
honor to say that I have telegraphed to
the sheriff at Walsenburg for information
concerning the alleged lynching, and to
protect his prisoners and will take such
further steps as are necessary and can he
taken within authority conferred on him
by law to insure protection to the life and
property of the Italians in custody in the
said Huerfano county, the same as if they
were American citizens. I have the further
honor to say that it is not yet know to me
that the Italians in question are not Amer-
ican citizens."
The report of the sheriff to the government
related that one Italian has been
killed en route to Walsenburg and that
two had escaped. Whether they are dead
or not, he did not know. Two others were
killed in the jail. Governor McIntyre immediately
sent the following telegram in
reply:
" Wire me at once whether you are maintaining
order and protecting prisoners and
whether you have sufficient force to prevent
further mob violence, and whether excitement
has abated. You are expected to
prevent recurrence of violence to prisoners
Irake every precaution to protect life and
property and as soon as possible ascertain
who composed mob doing the lynching
and as soon as the practicable, arrest them."
