FIEND LYNCHED
FOR CRIME BY
PHOENIX MOB
First Arizona Lynching in Thirty Years
Takes Place in Pinal County
FLORENCE STATION, Ariz., May
11. Vane Ashmore, alias Starr Daley,
was lynched by a band of masked men
at four o'clock last Sunday morning
at the spot near Week's Camp where
on last Thursday night Ashmore murdered
James Ray Gibson and after
compelling his wife to disrobe subjected
her to repeated outrages. The
lynching followed a terrific chase of
the sheriff's car in which Daley was
being spirited to the state prison at
Florence and was the first to occur in
Arizona in the last thirty years.
Ashmore was taken from the sheriff's
deputies at Florence Station, two
miles from the state prison after a midnight
road race in which hundreds of
cars packed with armed men participated
. The race started at Phoenix
when Ashmore was taken from the
Maricopa county jail by Sheriff Wilky,
who feared that repeated threats of a
lynching would be carried out. The
car carrying Ashmore and the deputies
left the jail at 11:30, and fifteen min-
utes later fully 100 cars took up the
chase, which led south across the Salt
river and out across sixty- five miles
of rough desert road to Florence. Hard
pressed by their pursuers the deputies
turned their car aside into the brush at
one point, extinguished their lights and
watched car after car dash by. They
then started to return to Phoenix but
saw that escape would be impossible
owing to the number of cars coming
from the capital city so continued their
journey to Florence.
Ashmore was taken from the dep-
uties at three o'clock Sunday morning
at Florence Station by a band of
masked men who had arrived at the
station a few minutes ahead of the
deputies. The deputies were then ordered
to return to Phoenix, which they
did. Ashmore was taken to the scene
of the crime and hanged. On the road
back to the place where he paid the
penalty he is said to have confessed
to a large number of crimes.
The coroner's jury which was im-
panelled at Florence rendered a verdict
of" death from hanging at the
hands of unknown probably
from Maricopa county parties."
