The political and economic inactivity of the black man is directly
attributable to the lynch law. Carefully considering the status of
the ex- slave and searching into reasons which have been given to
explain why he fails to measure up comparably with other peoples,
it can be seen without tedious investigation that his efforts have been
thwarted, his life thrown into constant and continual jeopardy and
his property holdings intimidated by the ever- present spectre of the
lyncher's torture, vandalism and devastation.
During the last election when" the men of the night" sought to
exercise their right of ballot, many were murdered, some brow- beaten
and warned, homes were burned, churches demolished, women rav-
ished and children thrown into panic- stricken frenzy. The lynchers
of Florida, Georgia and Alabama hurled the fear of death with great
agony and terrible horror into the souls of black folks. The use of
the ballot is the inevitable means of political expression for American
citizens. This is denied and refused to black people. The denial and
refusal is enforced by lynchings or threats which signify the same.
The Ku Klux Klan carries its silent and sinister warning and like the
pirate's flag, embellished with skull and bones, its emblems scream
of death and disaster to black people. It follows that unless the
evils of unmolested outlawry are corrected that the political future
of the freed man will continue in its unsatisfactory and precarious
condition.
The economic background behind lynching is discernible even
It cannot be hidden or disguised. The
to the people across the sea.
lynch law has destroyed black men for having wealth and has even
been extended to fit the case of those who sought to get it. We
know men of our race who have been lynched for having bought
comfortable homes. We know others who have been driven from
their estates and their possessions seized and confiscated. Openly
and notoriously technical slavery and practical peonage is conducted
in the south with impunity. The labor of the black man has been
made profitable not for himself but for the lynch lords. It was the
lynch law which kept many of us from leaving the south and securing
healthy employment in the essential industries of the north. Men are
still denied free ingress and egress between the separate states. The
lynch law enforces Jim Crowism, backs up segregation and discrimination
and entirely curtails economic prowess of the dusky
Americans. the
Calling for a Conclave
Reviewing the lynchings of 1920, the causes and effects, it can
be concluded without hesitation or fears for error that the great evil
that confronts the black man of America is the unmitigated outlawry
of certain citizens living to a large extent in the south. For emphasis,
we repeat that the evil of lynching is the paramount hindrance to the
dark- skinned Americans. It stampedes his advancement, strikes
terror in his mind, cowers his spirit and leaves him facing the world
with stamp of the terrible ordeal visible to all students of human
nature the.
As for social advancement, the memories of the terrible tragedies
when the soldiers returned from France are vivid. Soldiers were
lynched for wearing the uniform. The southerner claimed that the
wearer was thrown upon a plane of practical equality with the sons
of the" sunny south." The slightest attempt to break the chains of
the under dog and to set him free were met by reprisals in the form of
lynching bees.
Different schools of thought sponsored by different types of
leaders naturally offered different programs, but there is one common
point upon which all leaders and" would- be leaders" can agree, and
that is that the lynch law is the Nemesis and barrier in the pathway
of their people. A new administration now stands upon the threshold
of the executive offices of the nation. It is necessary and expedient
for black people to agree upon a definite plan and program for the
destruction of their arch enemy. It is agreed that a federal law
against this crime is a safe and sane remedy, provided that proper
and effective enforcing measures will be adopted. This government
has just worked out to perfect and minute detail the involved and
complicated machinery of successful conscription. It has also destroyed
its arch enemy, alcohol, and is enforcing its burial rites with
deftness and dispatch. The government can successfully combat
. Congress in its legislative capacity can create adequate
lynchings laws in the form of a federal amendment.
