Mob
Hanging of a Negro Murderer by a
He had in Cold Blood Killed an Officer a few Hours Before.
His Plea for Mercy When he was Brought Face to
Face With Death. One Member of the Lynchers
More Merciful Than the Others Shortened the Sufferings
of the Wretch by Cutting His Throat as He
Strangling. was
Pittsburg, Kas., December 25 .-- Mont-
gomery Godley, a negro, was taken
from jail here to- day, and lynched by
a mob because early this morning he
shot and killed Milton Hinckle, a policeman
, while the officer was trying to
protect himself himself from a crowd
of unruly negroes.
The negro jerked the officer's pleto:
from his scabbard and shot the officer
with it from behind. Two hours late
a mob gathered and took the negro
from the city jail where he had been
taken after he was caught, and hanged
him to a telephone pole. As he was
choking to death one of the members
of the mob cut his throat and ended
his suffering.
A large number of negro men and
women from various mining camps in
this vicinity, among them Mont ana
Joe Godley, brothers, were drinking
and carousing at a ball. Officer Hinckie
requested them to be quiet. The God-
ley brothers answered in an insulting
and insolent manner and he tried to
arrest them. They resisted and Off-
cer Hinckle blew his whistle for heip.
Then he began to use his club in orde.
to protect himself from the onslaught
of the crowd.
He was holding his own against
three of them when" Mont" Godley
grabbed the officer's revolver from its
scabbard and placing the muzzle be-
hin the right ear of the officer, pulled
the trigger. The ball passed throug ::
Hinckle's head and came out over the
left to the sidewalk.
eye. He fell
Other officers pursued the negroes, all
of whom started to run when the officer
fell. The Godley brothers were
both captured and locked up in the
city jail. Hinckle was carried to the
city hall where he died.
The news of the murder spread and
soon 2 crowd gathered about the jail
A leader was not slow in coming for-.
ward and erics of" hang him,"" burn
him,"" get a rope" were heard on every
side. The mob gathered in the corridors
and about the jail doors. An
attempt was first made to rob City
Marshal Higgins of his keys to the jail
door but he convinced the mob that
they were not in his possession at the
time. A crowbar and hammer was
then procured and the jail doors were
battered and broken down open.
Godley had courage and cursed the
mob when the leaders entered the jail,
but his courage left him when he began
to realize that death was near.
He began to supplicate and begged for
the officers to protect him but they
were overpowered and taken care of by
a portion of the mob. Godley was
dragged from the jail into the yard and
given a few moments to talk. He
told so many conflicting stories about
the affair that the mob became impatient
and hurried him about thre
blocks away from the jail, procuring
a rope on the way. The men hanged
him to a step of a telephone pole. The
rope broke on the first effort and God-
ley fell to the ground. At this instant
some one in the crowd cut his throat
on one side severing the juglar vein
This brought a more merciful death
than was intended by the mob. He
was then hanged again. Godley came
here from Pierce City, Mo., at the time
the citizens of that town drove the
negroes out of the city about two years
The mob left his body hanging
ago.
for several hours before it was cur
down.
Great excitement prevails among
both whites and negroes as a result of
the lynching of Godley. Belligerent
crowds have been upon the streets al!
day and have made ugly threats.
Numerous negroes were locked up for
carrying concealed weapons. It is expected
that there will be further
between the races. troubie
