Injustice Begets Injustice.
South Carolina Starts with" Jim Crowism"
which makes Lynch Murder Easy. Brave
Wealthy Race Man, Anthony Crawfording
and Brutally Lynched at Abbeville, S. Carolina.
]
To the Edilor of the News and Courier: Please allow
the writer space to give his most mphatic endorment to
the article, which recently appeared in yon solumns, of Mr.
W. T. Clayton, in which he denounces the lynching of a Negro
in Abbeville, a man who was charged with no crime or
misdemeanor, his only fault being that he was insolent and
in this way had become obnoxious in his intercourse with
some of the white citizens of the city. Lynching is utterly
inexcusable and indefensible under any circumstances, but
it is easy to understand that in the presence of a heinous
crime that men might be carried away by passion and wreak
summary vengeance upon the perpetrator of the act. In
this lynching, however, there was an absence of anything of
this nature and this fact renders is one of the most disgraceful
and inexcusable crimes that has ever been committed in
South Carolina, and one that will ever be a reproach to Ab-
beville and to the whole State as well, for which there is no
such thing as blotting such an act of savagery out and Ab-
beville County can never live it down. Any excuses that
may be made for it will only make matters worse and the
only thing to do is to see that nothing like it ever occurs
gain. Abbeville, and not inappropriately, has often been
referred to as the Athens of South Carolina and it is very
certain that no county in the state, possibly not a single one,
has given birth to so many distinguished men as has the one
which has allowed this foul blot to stain her heretofore spot-
less record. The voices of her sons have been heard in
the councils of their native state and they have taken prominent
part in the enactment of her laws; some of the state
were born within her limits and the decisions of her pure
and learned judges will ever adorn the court records of South
Carolina.
On almost every battlefield of Virginia, and in
other portions of the South, many of her best and bravest
men made their country and state ever glorious by their heroic
deaths, a willing sacrifice to a cause they knew to be
right. Yet with all these recollections of the past its people
stood supinely and allowed this piece of barbarism to occur
. It is easy to imagine that were it possible these great
men of Abbeville's glorious past would shake off the cerements
of the tomb and rise in solemn and indignant protest
against the living for permitting such an inexcusable crime
If anything could add to the horror of it, it would be in the
fact that the lynching took place in open daylight and that
there was not the least attempt on the part of the mob at
concealment. If, when the sheriff first rescued the murdered
man from the hands of the mob why did he not summon
a posse and protect the man, as he had sworn to do,
from the hands of the mob? Can any sane man be made
to believe that the sheriff really tried to protect the prisoner?
Why did he not use his pistol and have shot, as he ought unquestionably
to have done down a few members of the mob?
Had he done this, he would in all probability have saved
his county from this burning disgrace, for while a mob may
be composed of individually brave men, as a mob they are
the veriest cowards that can be conceived of and can, as has
been often the case, easily be cowed by one determined man.
To make matters worse still, there is the finding of the coroner's
jury that the man came to his death at the hands of
parties unknown. The finding should have been, at the
hands of parties whose names the jury did not wish to divulge
. If it were not such a serious matter, the taking of
the life of a man against whom there was no indictment, the
whole affair would furnish an adequate theme for the basis
of a comic opera. Was the sheriff so overcome by fear
that he was unable to recognize any of the mob when it
came to giving his testimony before the coroner's jury or to
remember their names? He should have been put in solitary
confinement until he could freshen up his memory a
little and give in some of the names of those who composed
the mob. But the writer almost forgot to mention the fact
that the victim was guilty of the terrible crime of striking
one of his assailants with a hammer.
If the hammer had
been a powerful dynamite bomb he would have been perfectly
justified in throwing it in the midst of his assailants
when it became evident that they were determined to kill
him and take as many of them along with him as possible
for they were more deserving of death than their victim.
But while all this was going on where was the mayor of the
city ?. Where were the police, and where was the patriotic
who was not, if it came to the worst, willing to sacri-
citizen fice his own life to save the fair name and honor of his state
and county from this ineffaceable
disgrace? Had any cit-
zen done this he would have
done the county a greater service
than any other man to
whom it has ever given birth,
and more entitled to everlast
remembrance, for what
is one life or a hundred lives,
when, if by their sacrifice they
can save the fair name
honor of the state and county and
THE LATE ANTHONY CRAWFORD.
Murdered a mob of white men at Ab-
beville by, B. C., Oct. 1, 1916
Abbeville County can never
again hold the place she once
occupied in public esteem,
but she can, in a measure at
least, make some atonementgate
by bringing as many of the
members of this mob as possible
to the bar of justice and
seeing to it that they are adequately
punished; but in the
present low state of public
opinion that exists at present
in South Carolina( when it
comes to the enforcement of
the criminal laws of the state
it is useless to hope that this
will be done.
One thing is certain, however
, and that is that we must
put an end to occurences of
this kind or we will soon have
the very foundation stones up
on which our civilization rests
crumbling beneath our feet,
The writer will in another
article pay his respects, as the
saying goes, to the people
who make crimes of this kind
possible by their silly sentimentality
in trying to save
men from the legitimate consequences
of their crimes. A
great deal of this is falsely
called mercy, but the true
mercy is in the rigid and in.
exorable enforcement of the
criminal laws. Sending a man
to the electric chair or to the
penitentiary does not degrade
him, for he degrades himself
when he commits the crime.
. W. D. WOODS
Darlington, S. C..
