( Preston News Service)
Douglas, Ga., Nov. 26.- A telling
blow at lynching was struck Wednes-
day when Judge Harry D. Reed of the
Superior Court, sentenced the ringleader
of a band of Georgia lynchers to
life imprisonment and meted out sentences
of from four to twenty years'
imprisonment to eight others who
pleaded guilty. The mob had lynched
David Wright, white, who had been
imprisoned on a murder charge in connection
with the death of Mrs. Zelphie
Rollins. Wright was taken from the
county jail and his body riddled with
bullets. Major Brown, brother- in- law
of the slain woman, confessed to being
leader of the mob and was sentenced
to life imprisonment. The following
were sentenced to prison terms ranging
from four to twenty years: Archie
Tanner, George Lott, Paul Cody, Willie
Arnold, Willie Tanner, Joe Hutto,
Alma Hester and Charlie Adams.
Three men accused of having participated
in the lynching pleaded not
guilty. They were Jack Lastinger,
John Strickland and W. Tildon Smith.
Their cases will be tried later. All the
defendants were young men and their
wives and children clustered around
them in the court room, making a
great show of weeping and despondency
.
" Lynching is a menace to the rights
and liberties of the American individual
, and should be regarded so by
every intelligent community in the
United States," Judge Reed declared.
" It is as much out of place in our
modern civilization as would be the
burning of witches."
The Wright lynching was the first in.
Georgia this year. Shortly after Wright
had been confined to jail in connection
with the death of Mrs. Rollins, at
whose home he had been living, a band
of masked men rushed into the office
of the county jail and surprised the
sheriff, who, at the time, was unarmed.
As the masked men were hurrying
their victim out of jail, the sheriff's
the mask
wife is said to have torn
from the face of one of them. After
the investigation was well under way,
Robert Bullard, an alleged participant
in the lynching, turned state's evidence.
Authorities have taken pains to keep
Bullard away from the trial.
Abbie Brown, wife of Major Brown,
is in jail after having been convicted
of murder in connection with the death
of a colored restaurant keeper. She is
charged with attempted jail breaking
also.
