Famous Secret Service Agents in Civil War
Cushman Pauline Miss
TONEWALL JACKSON'S Valley
campaign was one of the great
deeds of history. Not since Napoleon's
time have men been SO
dazzled as they were by that great
exploit of his. Yet Stonewall might
have gone down the Valley in defeat
had it not been for a little college
girl named Belle. On May 23,
1862, after Jackson Boyd had routed
Banks and driven him in confusion up the line of
the Shenandoah, he wrote this letter:
" Miss Belle Boyd: I thank you for myself and
for the army for the immense service that you have
rendered your country today."
The Union General Shields was quartered at
Miss Boyd's house. He held a council of war
there. Miss Boyd bored a hole in the floor of her
chamber, which was over Shield's room, and lay
there with her ear to it throughout the night. The
next morning Stonewall Jackson was in full pos-
sion of the plans for a great battle, and was able
to defeat the Union army.
She kept up her vallant work for the Confederacy
until the Union officers began to suspect
her, and Jackson ordered her to move from her
Shenandoah home to Winchester. She had been
arrested by the Federals and had flirted her way
to liberty- for she was a pretty girl, despite the
libelous photographs of her. In Winchester, Jack-
son conferred upon her a commission as captain
in the Confederate army. By this time the whole
North had become aware of the services she was
rendering the Confederacy, and every officer and
private was on the alert to get her. Yet she escaped
until 1864, when she was caught on a blockade
runner. Her captor lost his heart to her,
deserted the navy, and married her, and the
prince of Wales, afterward Edward VII, attended
the wedding.
Belle Boyd is the most famous of the spies, but
there are many others who deserve at least as
much fame as she won. One of them was Eliba-
beth B. Van Lew, who had the incredible courage
to act as a Union spy in Richmond throughout
the war. There was not a moment during those
four years when Lizzle Van Lew could hear a step
behind her on the street without expecting to have
somebody tap her on the shoulder and say," You
are my prisoner." She did not confine her activities
to spying and reporting what she had discovered
to the Union generals; she hid escaped
prisoners in her house, she dealt out messages to
soldiers in Libby from their homes; her resources
were endless. One of her favorite devices was
a metal platter with a double bottom, in which she
used to pretend to convey food to the prisoners.
Once a Confederate soldier, whose suspicion had
been aroused, insisted on examining it; but that
day Lizzle, who had been expecting some move
of this kind, had filled the false bottom not with
messages but with scalding water, and the
soldier secret dropped it with a shriek.
Lizzie Van Lew had a secret recess in her
house, a hiding place for dispatches. Sometimes
she would move a hand idly toward this recess,
and an hour or two later some old regress, apparently
dusting the room, would slip her hand
back of the mantel and find a dispatch which
would go to Grant that day. It was Lizzie Van
Lew who stole the body of Col. Ulric Dahlgren
and smuggled it out of Richmond, one of the most
daring exploits of the war.
Rosa B. Greenhow was a Confederate spy in
Washington who dazzled the Union in the early
days of the war. It was one of her assistants, a
Miss Duval of Washington, who brought Beaure-
gard the first news of McDowell's advance and enabled
him and Johnson to foll the Federal plans
for the campaign of Bull Run. Mrs. Greenhow
sent Miss Duval to Beauregard on July 10, giving
him the first news of the contemplated advance
, and on July 16 she sent him word of the
forces and the contemplated movement of the
Union army. He promptly wired the information
to Davis, and the word was sent to Johnson, which
resulted in his advance and the terrible downfall
of the Northern cause.
The Northern secret service was technically
under the direction of Gen. Lafayette C. Baker, a
man without scruple. After the war Baker insisted
on taking to himself most of the credit for
what had been done in detective work, but as a
matter of fact the best work done in the war was
done by volunteers, men and women, who were
willing to risk a shameful death to serve their
Many of them were private soldiers;
country.
some were enlisted among Allan Pinkerton's detectives
. Of these the most famous was Timothy
Webster, one of the greatest detectives who ever
lived. Webster succeeded in getting the South to
believe in him to such an extent that he came near
being made the colonel of an Alabama regiment,
and in Baltimore he was a member of the Knights
of Liberty. He even became a trusted emissary
of the Confederate war department at Richmond,
and at Pittsburgh a Union mob tried to lynch him
as a Confederate spy. Nothing saved him but the
arrival of Allan Pinkerton, with a drawn revolver,
and Webster and Pinkerton backed against the
and stood off the mob until help arrived.
Webster wall was finally captured in Richmond, and
How Belle Boyd won a victory
for Stonewall Jackson--
Exploits of Tim Webster
and Elizabeth Van Lew
for Union cause-- Many
interesting personalities of
those other war times
brought mind by Memorial
Day to. **
was betrayed by one of his associates, who confessed
to a man he supposed to be a Catholic
priest. The man was not a priest, but a disguised
Confederate soldier. The secrets of the confessional
, of course, did not apply in such a case, and
the brave spy was hanged. Hattie Lewis, Web-
ster's sweetheart, got an audience with Mrs. Jef-
ferson Davis and begged her, with tears in her
eyes, to save the man she loved. Instead, Hattle
Lewis herself was convicted of being a Union spy
and served a year's imprisonment.
There was one girl who won the rank of major
in the Union army. She was Pauline Cushman, an
actress, who became one of the best and most
famous spies in the Union army. Often and often
Major Pauline acted as a sort of advance guard
to the Federal army. Twice the Confederates
captured her, but on both occasions she escaped.
The first time she came near being released after
a first search, but a second revealed the fact
that in a hidden recess in her garters there were
orders from Thomas. She was about to be hanged
when Thomas captured Nashville and saved her.
Secretary Stanton commissioned her as major in
the Union army, and she was the only woman who
held that rank except Maj. Belle Reynolds, the
wife of a captain in the Seventieth Illinois, who
went to the war with her husband and performed
such prodigies of valor that Stanton honored her
with a commission
Sam Davis, the boy spy of the Confederacy, left
an imperishable record of heroism. He was only
fourteen when he joined the Confederate service,
at first as a private soldier. His talents as a
spy were great, and throughout Bragg's long warfare
in Tennessee he continually made use of the
brave little fellow. Davis was finally
betrayed
and captured in Nashville. He was taken before
Gen. Grenville M. Dodge, whose story of the hearing
makes a companion piece to the last days of
Nathan Hale. Here is the story as General Dodge
tells it:
" I took him to my private office and told him
It was a very serious charge brought against him;
that he was a spy, and from what I found upon
his person, he had accurate information in regard
to my army, and I must know where he obtained
it. I told him
he was a young man and did not
seem to realize the danger he was in. Up to that
time he had said nothing, but then he replied in
a most respectful and dignified manner:
" General Dodge, I know the danger of my
situation, and I am willing to take the consequences
.'
" I know that I'll have to die, but I will not tell
where I got the information. And there is no
power on earth that can make me tell. You are
doing your duty as a soldier, and I am doing
mine. If I have to die, I do so feeling that I am
doing my duty to God and my country.'
" I pleaded with him and urged him with all the
power that I possessed to give me some chance to
save his life, for I had discovered that he was a
most admirable young fellow, with the highest
character and strictest integrity. He then said:
' It is useless to talk to me. I do not intend to do
it. You can court- martial me, but I will not betray
the trust reposed in me.' He thanked me for the
Interest I had taken in him, and I sent him back
to prison. I immediately called a court- martial
to try him."
Even then the boy received offers of if
he would betray his confederate. He would liberty not.
Miss Belle Boyd
The only thing he wrote was a short note to his
mother saying that he had been captured and was
to be hanged and was not afraid to die. As he
stood on the scaffold a messenger arrived from
General Dodge promising him immunity if he
would reveal the identity of his confederate. The
rope was around his neck; the boy answered:
" If I had a thousand lives I would lose them all
here before I would betray my friends or the confidence
of my informant."
Then he turned to the executioner and said
casually," I am ready." The trap was sprung
and one of the heroes of the Confederacy was
dead. He was then sixteen years old.
There was an underground railroad of Confederate
sympathizers running through Maryland and
Virginia, headed by Custis Grymes of Virginia.
He came of the family which gave a wife to
George Washington, and many of his emissaries
were high- born women. One was a clergyman,
Rev. Dr. Stuart, an irreproachable Episcopalian.
When the dashing but hopeless raid on Vermont
by a Confederate force in Canada was ordered in
1864 Grymes sent girl named Olivia Floyd, who
concealed the order in her hair. It was the fash-
lon then for women to wear a curly net over their
locks, and Olivia hid the documents there and
made a wild ride on a bitter cold night into the
lines, where she delivered the orders that resulted
in the attack of St. Albans.
Gen. Jim Lane had a woman spy named Eliza.
beth W. Stiles, whose husband was murdered before
her eyes by Quantrell's guerrillas in 1862.
Border warfare was merciless; there was something
Indian about it. Mrs. Stiles devoted her
life to vengeance. She was quite deliberate about
it. She went East and put her children in school,
and then came back to the West and put herself
under Lane's orders. She faced death many a
time; once she was arraigned before Sterling
Price himself, but she made him belleve she was a
Confederate spy, and he gave her a horse and firearms
and sent her on her way.
One Union spy, Mack Williams, found himself
in the Confederate line face to face with his own
brother, a Confederate soldier." I'm a Yankee
spy," said Williams;" you're a rebel. Betray me if
you want to; it's your duty." It was a hard and
delicate question, but the ties of nature won out
over patriotism.
General Baker has recorded the fact that for
two years a farm near Fairfax Court House was
frequented by Union officers, none of whom had
the least suspicion that a daughter of the house
was a Confederate spy. She was, Baker says," a
young and decidedly good- looking woman, with
pleasing, insinuating manners." She appeared to
be a violent Union sympathizer, yet at night she
used to go out and meet Colonel Mosby and give
him the information she had gained from the
credulous Union officers. Baker finally caught her
by sending a woman spy who gained her
fidence. New York Times. con-
