BLOODY RIOTS IN SPRINGFIELD TODAY Historical
HORRIBLE SCENES OF DEATH
MILITIA IS
MARK STRUGGLE POWERLESS OF RACES
THOUSANDS OF ENRAGED WHITE MEN SWARM STREETS OF GREAT CITY, ARMED AND READY TO
GIVE BATTLE TO VAST NUMBERS OF ARMED AND DESPERATE NEGROES.- WOMEN AND CHILDREN
FLEEING.- SOLDIERS DISARMED BY CITIZENS BUT GOV. DENEEN STARTED 3,000
MORE TO SPRINGFIELD THIS AFTERNOON .-- NEGROES KILL COUNTY OFFICIAL
AND ROB HIS BODY.- PROHIBITION CANDIDATE FOR PRESIDENT ONE
OF SCORE OF INJURED. BUSINESS PARALYZED.- MANY DEADLY
CLASHES.- WORST- FEARED FOR TONIGHT.
Springfield, Ill., Aug. 15. Two white men were killed, one negro lynched and more than fifty persons injured and two
score of houses mostly occupied by negroes were burned last night as a result of an attempt by a mob to lynch a negro who
assaulted a white woman. After a night of riot, arson and slaughter the state troops were called out by the governor early
today with the hopes of restoring some semblance of order. Thousands of militiamen are patrolling the streets and it is
believed that further disorder may be prevented. The dead are: Charles Hunter, colored, Sam Johnson, white, 17 years old and
James Scott, white, 70 years old.
Among the injured is Eugene W. Chapin, Prohibition candidate for the presidency who while delivering an address on
the east side of the public square last night, attempted to defend a negro who had been dragged from a street car and was being
pounded by the mob.
" Stand back gentlemen, or I'll shoot every one who touches this man," shouted Chapin, as bleeding and frightened the
negro jumped for the speaker's platform. Chapin was instantly struck on the side of his head with a brick and knocked down.
In the melee the negro pulled a knife and slashed several white men. James Scott was struck by a stray bullet and killed.
The rioting was precipitated by assaults committed yesterday by the negro George Richardson upon Mrs. Mabel Hallam, wife of
a street car conductor. The victim later partly identified Richardson. A mob quickly formed about the jail but order was preserved
until night fall when a fake run of the fire department attracted the attention of the mob and Richardson and John
James, another negro charged with the murder of Clergy Ballard, who in trying to protect his daughter from an assault of
James, were rushed down the street to Harry Loper's restaurant and jumping into an automobile rushed out to where a Chicago
and Alton train stopped and took them aboard and into Bloomington to safety. After dark a mob growing uglier every minute
made a rush for Loper's restaurant and short work was made of it. Loper's automobile was overturned, set on fire and the
restaurant fixtures, tables and chairs, even sideboards and kitchen utensils were torn up and piled on the blaze. The fire department
was powerless every line of hose being cut before a stream of water could be forced into it. The local militia was kept
busy guarding the jail but finally a cavalry troop was dispatched to the restaurant and then the rioting broke out in a more
serious form. Shots were fired, the air filled with missles and many fell. After gutting Loper's restaurant the mob made
a rush for the levee district which is densely populated with negroes and building after building was stripped and set on fire.
Shortly before midnight Fishman's pawn shop was broken into the mob seizing shotguns, revolvers and ammunition
were soon in absolute control of the nitsuation.
At 3 o'clock this morning Charley Hunter, a negro was lynched at the corner of Twelfth and Madison streets, the troops
arriving too late to prevent the lynching. Some members of the mob declared that the lynched negro had shot two white men.
He was caught and dragged up the street and shot five time before being strung to a limb of a tree. The mob then danced
around the tree, but the arrival of troops from Decatur dispersed them in a hurry and by daylight the streets were practically
clear.
Despite the claims of the authorities that the mob is being held in check there another clash is expected. The negroes
are well armed and showing a spirit of determination to stand their ground. The white people are in an ugly mood and many
farmers and men from adjoining towns are constantly arriving. By six o'clock tonight the First, Fourth and Fifth Infantry
regiments will be here and the disturbed district will be under martial law. No street gatherings will be permitted tonight and
it is is probable that the business section will be patrolled by soldiers.
( By Associated Press.)
Peoria, Ill., Aug. 15.- A special from Springfield, Ill., says Assistant County Treasurer W. H. Bowie was caught and
shot this morning by an infuriated gang of negroes, after which he was robbed of several hundred dollars, his watch and
diamonds. It is reported that Bowie will die.
The negroes are swarming back into the east end of town and are heavily armed and a worse reign of terror is expected tonight
unless the troops show more power and restore order, as the blacks are just as determined as the whites and many lives
may be sacrificed. The officers and militia so far have been almost powerless and have been unable to command the situation
. The soldiers have in several instances been captured and their arms taken away from them and appropriated by the
mob. The whites are coming in from the nearby towns to help in the race war, and thousands of men are swarming the streets.
The whole business section of the city is just as demoralized as the east end and many of the larger stores are closed. A
large number of the citizens are leaving the city with the women and children, departing on every interurban car.
The negro, George Richardson, whose assault on the white woman Mrs. Hallam, yesterday, started the riot, was taken
from Bloomington last night, where he had been removed for safety, and has not been located this morning.
The Illinois traction interurban cars were taken away from the officials last night and a mob started for Bloomington
for the negroes, but learned that Richardson and another negro charged with murder had been removed. Four persons are
now reported dead, many whites are missing and it is known that scores of negroes have been dragged away wounded. The
frightened negroes from Springfield are fleeing through Peoria. Women and children are seeking places of safetly while the
men are looking for trouble, trying to arouse their people to go back to Springfield with them and fight. Several have
been arrested and their weapons taken away from them. here
Press Associated.) By(
