BOVORI TAKEN TO PUEBLO.
Florence Murder Suspect Out of Reach
of Mob Violence.
Denver.- A Republican special from
Canon City Friday night says:
Antone Bovori was taken to Pueblo
and turned over to Sheriff McMillan
for safe- keeping. Bovori was arraigned
before Justice Kennedy this afternoon,
his attorney waived examination and
he was held to the April term of the
District Court without bail.
There has been some talk of lynching
Bovori on the part of the Italians
in the coal camps and it was thought
best to take him to Pueblo to avoid violence
. While the jail here is believed
to be perfectly secure against any ordinary
assault, a number of special
deputies were sworn in yesterday and
guarded the building last night.
One of the principal reasons for taking
Bovori to Pueblo was to prevent
his killing prisoners in jail here, half
a dozen occupying adjoining cells and
with whom he might come in contact
in the corridors. He is considered the
most desperate crininal ever in jail
here and had threatened to kill the
other prisoners if opportunity offered.
To avold this possibility and to avoid
subjecting the county to heavy damages
in such event, it was thought best
to send him to Pueblo, where he can
be kept from contact with other prisoners
.
Heavily manacled and carefully
guarded, he was spirited from the jail
so quietly few, even of the county of
flelals, knew of his departure. He was
driven to the train in a closed carriage
and hustled aboard before half a dozen
people in town were aware of the fact.
There was some fear that the prisoner
might be taken from the train
by a mob at Florence and hanged and
he was secreted by the officers until
the train was well beyond the limits
of that place. He was in charge of
Sheriff Esser and Under Sheriff Chete
lat.
Bovori has not been apprised of the
finding of Joseph Minichiello's body
and will not be until that fact is communicated
- to him by his attorney.
George W. Wilkes of Florence. When
taken in custody he had$ 345. To this
amount can be added$ 85 obtained
from the sale of his property.
Crowds of angry Italians collected in
the various coal camps last night to
discuss the finding of Joseph Minich-
fello's body and denounce Bovori. Everywhere
there was strong condemnation
and about the only thing lacking
for an attempt at lynching was leadership
. However, no unlawful steps have
been taken and the disposition now
seems to be to let the law take
course. its
