LYNCHED IS NEGRO ASSAULTING
The Successful Overridding of the Law, Causes Death of
Two Men and the Wounding of Nine More --- Sheriff
in Florida Town Attempts to Maintain the Majesty
of the Law and Defend Prisoner,
According to His Sworn Word
Until Overpowered,
Pensacola, Fla., July 30.- Two men were killed and nine were
wounded, some of them fatally as the result of a clash at midnight
between a mob determined to lynch Leander Snow, a negro,
and the sheriff and his forces, in which the mob finally overpowered
the authorities.
The lynching was carried out in the most prominent park in
the city.
Shaw yesterday assaulted Mrs. Lillian Davis at her home near
this city during the absence of her husband, and, after cutting
her throat almost from ear to ear, clubbed her over the head with
a revolver.
When accosted by Shaw, Mrs. Davis seized a revolver and ordered
the negro from the house. He grasped the weapon, and,
taking out his knife, drew the blade across her throat, and on escaping
from the house struck the baby.
Two hours later a deputy sheriff captured Shaw after a hard
fight. Mrs. Davis, although in a critical condition, identified her
assailant.
In the afternoon after the negro had been arrested, crowds began
quietly gathering in the streets and in the evening were reinforced
by large numbers of men from the country.
A railred iron was brought into play by about a dozen men
on the iron gates of the jail yard. At the same moment the entire
mob seemed to catch the spirit, and, with yells and curses,
dashed for the jail entrance. Some climbed over the tall iron fence
while others hammered upon the gate.
The sheriff, with half a dozen deputies, stood in windows upstairs
with drawn revolvers and rifles The sheriff pleaded
. with
the mob, at the same time telling them he would defend the prisoner
at the cost of every life present.
His words had no effect and the moment the first blow was
struck on the gates a volley of shots flashed from the upper windows
of the jail.
This was answered by the crowd, which poured volley after volley
into the jail windows, wounding two deputies. The mob was
momentarily driven back with many wounded and one dead, as a
result of the deadly aim of the sheriff and his deputies.
Shortly after midnight, the mob, then numbering 2,000 men,
made a second attack and stormed the jail. They overpowered
the officers and secured the trembling negro. A noose was placed
around his
, and, after being dragged for two blocks, he was
strung up electric light pole in the center of the park, where
fully 2,000 bullets riddled the body.
The man who was killed during the attack on the jail is Henry
C. Cullum, a street car motorman, and Bud Nichols, a planter.
Four of the injured will probably die.
Mrs. Davis cannot recover, her baby will survive the blow
received at the hands of the negio but.
