[ Reprinted by special permission
from the Harvard Law Review, Vol.
XV., No. 9.]
Has the United States power to pro-
teet the lives of its citizens ,, or the
lives of resident aliens to whom it
owes protection, against mob violence
within the States, if the States fail to
them.
protect
Probably a majority of public men
and constitutional lawyers," under prepossession
of some abstract theory of
the relations between the State and
national governments," as Mr. Justice
Bradley once said in the Supreme Court,
will incline to answer this question off-
hand in the negative.
An offhand answer is not enough.
The progress of mob law in many of
the States invites, if it does not compel
, a serious inquiry into the constitutional
question of federal power to
put an end to it. This is not a sectional
question, nor is it to be approached in
a narrow or sectional spirit. The fact
that the victims of lynching are usually
of the Colored race does not limit
the importance or the object of the inquiry
. It is not a race question, but
one which affects the integrity of the
government. Lynch law is actual and
concrete anarchy; the one complete
form in which anarchism appears in
our midst. The United States cannot
afford to tolerate it within the national
domain if the power of prevention exists
. It is idle to denounce anarchism
in the abstract, or to punish by special
laws the killing of Presidents or other
officers of government by anarchists,
in a community where there is no system
of laws adequate to protect the
life of any person and every person
against mob violence.
The demoralizing effect of lynching
upon the public moral sense is enough
to compel attention to the subject, if
there were no other reason for it. The
practice is steadily increasing by meth-
,
ods of progressive barbarity. When
Hose was burned at the stake in New-
man some ten years ago, a cry of indignation
went up from press and people
in all parts of the country. Burn-
ng alive was comparatively a novelty
, even in Judge Lynch's code of
punishments. Since that occurrence
many lynchings have been perpetrated
by burning, and they have excited hardly
a word of public comment. Such
statistics as have been collected, probably
not full nor entirely accurate, indicate
that there were more murders
by mob violence within the States during
the last year than in any year before
, and that in but about one- tenth
of these cases was there even a charge
of the peculiar crime to which lynching
is sometimes considered especially ap-
propriate.
As a legal or political question, the
character or degree of guilt on the part
of the victim of the mob cannot enter
into it. If the guiltier man is lynched
today, the less guilty may be tomorrow,
and the innocent man the next day.
In fact, a substantial proportion of
the victims are innocent of any offense.
A mob cannot be trusted to determine
this question, and often makes no attempt
to determine it. It is less revolting
if the mob kills the perpetrator of
heinous crime than if it kills for a
trivial offense or no offense at all. But
one case involves as much danger to
the political system as the other. No
civilized community can suffer vengeance
to be wrecked or penalties to be
visited upon any person by lawless
violence. The possible consequences of
tolerating such practice do not need
even to be suggested.
It is not agreeable to reflect that
lynching as the Chinese minister has
pointedly, reminded us, is peculiarly an
ХА ПАСЛЯ ЯНТ
No. 35
Remedy for
Lynching.
E. Pillsbury, formerly
of the State of
Massachusetts.
American custom. It does not, and
could not exist under any other government
in the world having any pretensions
to be called civilized. Not in
Spain, Russia, or even Turkey, are men
and women burned at the stake by
mobs, with or without charges of crime.
The American States enjoy a complete
monopoly of this distinction. The
weight of public sentiment in every
State undoubtedly is against it. The
better element of the people in every
State would prevent it. But for one
reason or another the States do not
prevent it, and it has generally been
supposed that the federal government
has no power to interfere.
A bill some time ago was introduced
in each house of Congress, designed to
afford to citizens federal protection
against lynching, in default of protection
by the States. In substance it
provides, in section 1, that the putting
to death of a citizen of the United
States by a mob in default of protection
of such citizen by the State or
its officers, shall be deemed a denial to
the citizen by the State of the equal
protection of the laws, and a violation
of the peace of, and an offense against
the United States; in section 2, that
every person participating in such mob
shall be deemed guilty of murder and
subject to prosecution therefor in the
federal courts; in section 3, that the
county in which a lynching occurs shall
be subject to a pecuniary forfeiture, to
be recovered by action prosecuted by
and in the name of the United States;
in section 4, that State peace officers
who omit al Ireasonable efforts to prevent
a lynching, and prosecuting officers
who omit all reasonable efforts to
bring the offenders to justice under the
laws of the State, shall be deemed
guilty of an offense against the United
States and be liable to prosecution and
punishment therefor in the federal
courts and in section 5 that State of-
;,
ficers having the custody of citizens of
the United States charged with crime
,
who suffer them to be taken from their
custody by mobs for the purpose of
lynching, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense against the United States and
liable to federal prosecution and
be punishment. Section 6 provides for the
