CIVILIZING THE WHITE SOUTH.
DIRECTING extensive military operations against a secret band
of outlays, called night riders, whose members had lynched a prominent
citizen, the Governor of Tennessee has adopted the method recognized
the world over as necessary to promote civilization in districts where the
laws and rules of civilization are not in effectual force. The western
pioneer recalls the days when Uncle Sam's soldiers were the ultimate
force upon which the settlers relied for protection as they pushed
their way beyond the established borders of civilization and made their
homes in the fertile lands where marauding savages were wont to roam
in quest of game and in the pursuit of their long uninterrupted and
only calling. The savage resentment of the intrusion of the settler,
which meant interference with and restriction of their natural
hunting privileges, made military protection necessary and
many thrilling romances, founded on border day experiences,
yet live to show how civil order and civilized rule were finally
established. That such a necessity should arise anew in a section
where civilzation was supposed to exist merely demonstrates the fact
that isolation and selfish assumption make savages, without regard to
race or other diversifying influences. That there is more downright outlawry
in the South than in the West or the North is due to the isolation
of communities, and the fact that the people thereof imagine that they
have natural rights which should not be restricted or interfered with for
the furtherance of the interests of others. Law counts for nothing
against savage conviction, hence military force is the only effective and
permanently convincing argument. In many portions of the South
the rural white population is made up of denizens who have squatted in
the country for years, with little claim of lauded ownership, or, if
landlords, dwelling upon widely separated tracts, where social communication
is like that between trappers and hunters who touch civilization
only for occasional trading benefits. Such people attempt to regulate
their own surroundings, and the night rider, the moonshiner, the law-
defyer and the lyncher result. These people, with their savage sentiments
, contribute to the populations of the towns and villages and form
a permanent opposition to those whose breeding has taught them that
the country, the town, the commonwealth and the nation are bound
together by a community of interest. Feud and murder are natural to
them; lynching, especially of a Negro, is a passing diversion and a
pleasing expression of hate and despising contempt. Nothing will bring
them under the law but that severe force which threatens their extermination
if they continue to defy the law. The military is as necessary
to civilize the white South as it ever was to open opportunity and-
dom to the settlers of the great wide and savage West. free
