Troops Kill Five in Mob
I. W. W. ABSOLVES LEGION OF PLOT TO ATTACK HALL
LYNCHERS MOWED DOWN
STORMING COURT HOUSE
FOR NEGRO; KILLED GIRL
Militia and Police Hold Back Rioters Till Federal
Force Can Be Got to Lexington, Kentucky, and
Martial Law Proclaimed; Slayer to Die.
Lexington, Ky., Feb. 9.- Martial law prevails here tonight, following
the killing of five persons and the wounding of 15 others
in the attempt of a mob to lynch William Lockett, a negro, who
confessed he brutally murdered a 10- year- old white girl, Genevieve
Hardman.
While the murderer was in court being sentenced to die in the
chair, March 11, a mob formed outside and tried to storm
the electric courthouse. Militia and police fired upon the crowd.
The city was quiet early tonight, but
authorities fear a recurrence of violence.
Five hundred additional United States
troops are enroute from Camp Taylor,
Ky.
Negro Was Confessing Crime.
Lexington and all of Fayette county,
was placed under martial law at 3 o'clock
by Brigadier General F. C. Marshall on
his arrival from Camp Taylor with 300
First division
troops of the famous
which helped repulse the Germans at
Chateau- Thierry.
The attempt to lynch Lockett was
made just after he had confessed to the
murder and as the jury found him guilty
of murder in the first degree.
The shooting temporarily dispersed
the mob and gave the authorities time
in which to circulate a story that they
had rushed Lockett to a secret place of
safety. He is still in the court house,
however. The mob reformed, meanwhile,
and looted pawn shops and hardware
stores to get fire arms.
Fearing an attack on the handful of
national guardsmen on duty, the authorities
appealed to Governor Morrow for
assistance.
Guards and Ropes Check Farmers.
Lockett, arrested last Tuesday night
and held in the state penitentiary at
Frankfort for safe keeping, was indicted
last week and was brought here on a
special train this morning for trial. He
was heavily guarded.
Hundreds of farmers from the surrounding
country arrived early to attend
the trial, and sullenly watched the
prisoner as he was marched from the
train to the court house between lines
of state troopers. When the trial opened
court was crowded to capacity. Every
one was searched for firearms before
being admitted
Hundreds were. unable to gain ad-
mittance and congregated in the street,
along which heavy wires and ropes had
been stretched.
The cry" Let's get him" from
brawny farmer on the outskirts of the
crowd turned the crowd into a moD
which began surging toward the entrance
to the building. Soldiers and police
dropped back into close formation and
trained their guns on the mob, which
never hesitated.
Adjutant General Deweese, in command
of the militia. shouted a final
warning to the crowd and then fired a
revolver into the air. It was the signal
for the troops to fire.
Fire From Court House, Too.
Soldiers and police fired point blank
a nearby machine.
into the crowd and
gun rattled. From the windows of the
court room above. another rain of bullets
rolled down on the asphalt street.
Four men fell at the first volley. The
mob, which had surged half way up the
steps, pressed back and broke.
Those killed in the clash were B. F.
Carrier and L. M. King, both of Lexing
ton, and John Thomas and William Ef-
fington, both of Versailles. J. M. Rogers
died tonight.
Lockett's arrest indictment, trial and
sentence sets a new record for rapidity
last
Kentucky
was arrested
in He
.
Tuesday night indicted Friday and was
tried, found guilty and sentenced in a
few minutes today. Under his sentence
he will die in the electric chair on
March 11.
The little Hardman girl's body was
found mutilated in a cornfield last Tues-
day morning, soon after she had left her
home for school. Her head had been
crushed with a stone and body
partially covered with cornstalks her.
