JUDGE T. G. JONES
CAUSES SURPRISE
Delivers Startling Charge to
Huntsville Grand Jury
WANTS LYNCHERS INDICTED
Thinks Thirteenth Amendment Gives
Federal Court the Right to Take
Cases Against Mem
Up bers of Mob.
Huntsville, October 11 .-( Special.)- Citing
the thirteenth amendment to the federal
constitution as governing the United
States court's authority to punish mobs
that lynch negroes for crimes that would
not impel the mob to lynch a white man
for the same crime, Judge Thomas G.
Jones of the United States court charged
the grand jury today to make a full investigation
of the lynching of Horace
Maples in this city on September 7 and
indict all parties who engaged in the
lynching as well as those who took part
in firing the jail and endangering the
lives of United States prisoners confined
therein.
The charge was delivered at noon immediately
after the organization of the
grand jury. Judge Jones appointed Sam-
uel M. Thompson as foreman of the jury,
and announced that because of the unusual
per cent of matters to be brought
to the attention of the grand jury he had
written his charge. He read the charge
from a printed pamphlet and the reading-
consumed nearly two hours. The charge
was one of the most exhaustive ever delivered
to a grand jury in this city.
Causes Considerable Surprise.
The purport, construing as it did the
thirteenth amendment to the constitution
governing the United States' right to
take a hand in the lynching of a negro,
was received with a considerable measure
of surprise.
Congressman William Richardson, by
request, sat on the bench for a while as
Judge Jones was delivering the charge.
The grand jury began its investigation
during the afternoon. There is hardly
a doubt that somebody will be indicted
for the lynching of Maples, and the
opinion is that there will be more serious
trouble than in the cases of those who
were indicted for murder and arson in
the state court. It is believed this matter
will go up to the supreme court of the
United States before it is finally setled
if any of alleged lynchers are convicted
. the
Judge Jones' Charge.
Judge Jones said:
" Gentlemen of the Grand Jury: You
are clothed, for the time being, with the
majesty of a great people, to aid in the
administration of their justice. Men are
so accustomed to witness the workings
of the courts, that they seldom pause to
reflect upon the solemnity and significance
of the duty, or from whence comes
the power
" In the beginning, when the Creator
made the earth and placed man upon it,
He was man's only law- maker and judge.
He could have continued to the end of
time the only law- giver and judge of the
children of men. He did not so choose.
He wrote in the heart of every human
being the instinct between right and
wrong, and then, for some wise purpose
of his own, instead of Himself directly
governing man, committed to man the
awful power of governrnt, which in so
and different s makes and
many
unmakes the destinies and happiness of
races and individuals.
Keepers of Fellow Man.
" Thus he made us keepers of our fellow
man, and entrusted to us His divine power
. The duty and power are none the
less divine because they have been delegated
to man. In this sense ft is true that
the Powers that be are ordained of God.
However humble or unworthy we may be,
our office ennobles us when we rightly
and fearlessly administer justice.
" The power from which our office
comes and the tremendous consequences
for good or ill which wait upon the work
of justice, bid us always remember when
we minister at its altars, the warning of
the Lord to the prophet of old,' put off
thy shoes from off thy feet; for the place
whereon thou standest is holy ground."
Let us not pollute God's altar by coming
here with any unworthy purpose, or stain
the whiteness of our souls by
faltering in the pathway of duty. unmanly
The Acts of the Mob.
" Lately, as the court knows from common
knowledge, as well as from reports
of its officers, a mob gathered in a
stone's throw of this room, and in insolent
defiance of the judges and laws of
our state, and with studied insult and
contempt for its civil and military power
which sought to protect the Huntsville
jail, assaulted the assembled forces of
the law at their post of duty there. It
broke down the doors of the jail, set it
on fire, resisted efforts to put out the
flames, and obstructed officers of the
United tSates in their endeavors to remove
United tSates prisoners from their
cells to a place of safety.
" This frenzied and savage work was
done that Horace Maples, a negro, a
citizen of Alabama and of the United
States, who was there confined to be
safely kept to answer the laws of the
state of Alabama upon a charge of murder
, should not be so kept and disposed
of according to law, but instead, should
be delivered to the mob and lawlessly put
to death. From the same sources of information
the court is advised that there
were utterances of members of this mob,
and speeches made to incite it to its
crime, and other things done, which go
to show that the mob, composed wholly
of white men, was finally stirred to its
purpose rather from prejudice against
Maples' race than from indignation at
the crime laid at his door, and that because
of that race prejudice the mob
did its murderous work to prevent Maples
, who was accused of crime upon a
white man, from enjoying the rights belonging
to every freeman to be set free,
if innocent, or to be condemned and punished
, if guilty, by the constituted
bunals of the land. tri-
Carried Off Keys.
" Intent upon its murderous work this
mob carried off the keys to the cells, 11t-
tle recking whether the helpless human
beings confined there were rescued. or
roasted, and left the riddled body of Maples
dangling from a halter in the light
of the flames of the burning jail.
" There, in the shadow of the clustering
churches, courthouses, schools and homes
of this beautiful city, it remained until
cut down, a mute but horrid witness to
a crime which mocked at all the teachings
of religion, civilization and law. Every
normallly constituted human being is
shocked at such a crime. The question
comes unbidden to your lips, have you
any duty to perform with reference to
these offenses?
Federal Jurisdiction of the Offense.
" The answer involves inquiry whether
congress has power to punish such an
offense and if so, has it exercised that
power, by appropriate legislation? The
great importance of the principles involved
and the value of a right understanding
of them, demand that the court
should give at length the reason of the
law as well by the law itself, that you
may the better understand how to apply
it.
" Prior to the last three amendments to
the constitution of the United States, the
murder of Maples could not under the circumstances
, constitute an offense against
the United States. If congress has the
power now to punish the offense in any
phase of it, that power must be found in
the thirteenth and fourteenth amendments
to the constitution of the United
States. Is it contained in either or both?
" The thirteenth amendment provides:
1. Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude
, except as a punishment for crime
whereof party shall have been duly
convicted, the shall exist within the United
States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction
.
The Fourteenth Amendment.
" The fourteenth amendment provides:
All persons born or naturalized in the
and subject to the juris-
United States
,
diction thereof, are citizens of the United
States and of the state wherein they reside
. No state shall make or enforce any
law which shall abridge the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United
States; nor shall any state deprive any
person of life, liberty, or property, without
due process of law; nor deny to any
person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws.
enforce'
empowered' to
" Congress is
each of these articles by appropriate legislation
." ***.
Judge Jones then explained the rules
for construing the constitution and went
into an exhaustive history of the thir-
amendment and the cases leading
teenth up to the adoption of the civil rights
bill, quoting Mr. Justice Bradley extensively
. He also reviewed the fourteenth
amendment and in describing the
legislative power under this amendment
said in part:
Extradition of Fugitives.
" The clause in the constitution relative
to the extradition of fugitives from justice
from one state to another, presents
a familiar illustration of the exercise of
the power by congress over private individuals
who resist the officers of a
state in the performance of duties which
the constitution imposes upon them. Under
the terms of that article, the United
States is without power to compel a state
from justice
to surrender a fugitive
upon the demand of the governor of an-
under that
other state. The duty
clause though imposed by the constitution
, is, only a moral duty addressed to
the conscience of the state.
" Yet, when the state undertakes to obey
constitution enters
the, and upon the
duty, congress to further the purpose of
the constitution, steps in and punishes
individuals who interfere with the agencies
of the state in the discharge of that
duty. More than a century ago, congress,
under a statue now codified as section
5279 of the revised statues, put a heavy
penalty upon persons who interfere with
the agents of the demanding state in the
discharge of their duty, though those
persons, in the language of the Supreme
court( Robb vs. Connolly, 111 U. S., 634)
' are the mere agents of the state, with
authority to receive the fugitive from
justice.'
What Difference in Principles.
" What difference is there in principle
between legislation of congress which
persons who rescue a fugitive
punishes from justice in the custody of the agent
of the demanding state, and legislation
which punishes persons who overpower
the officers of the state, and murder an
accused person in their custody, to prevent
the prisoner from having a trial before
the court which it is the duty of
the state to afford him? In the passage
the
of such a law the government of
United States performs quite a differing
function from that of aiding the state,
when it is unable to preserve its own
peace in the execution of the laws. The
language of the Supreme court in the
United tSates vs. Cruikshank, et al., 92
U. S., 553, that' It is no more the duty
or within the power of the United States
to punish for a conspiracy to falsely imprison
or murder within a state, than it
would be to punish for false imprisonment
or murder itself,' is declared in
Logan vs. The United tSates, 144 U. S.,
287, to refer to the fundamental rights of
life and liberty which are not created by
or dependent upon the constitution of
the United States, and has no reference
to such rights and privileges as are created
by dependent upon the federal
constitution or.
