STATISTICS OF MURDER, HANGING, ETC., IN
THE UNITED STATES.- A correspondent of the
New York Tribune has collected the following
statistics, in reference to the highest of crimes and
the severest of penalties, known to human law:
Of the murders committed in the U. States during
1847, the total number amounts to 246. This does
not include 33 persons, who were poisoned to death
at a wedding in Texas, which, being an extraordinary
occurrence, is not merged in the general list,
which it would swell to 279. During the year there
were 9[ this is either a misprint or a glaring error.]
persons executed- four of whom were white men,
one white woman and four negroes. Several of
these were executed for murders committed the
year previous. It is not pretended that the list includes
all the murders committed during the past
year. They were taken from a few papers, such as
the Cincinnati Gazette, Atlas, Chronicle, Dollar
Commercial, New York Tribune and Baltimore Patriot
. The following classification is not relied on
as strictly accurate. Some which are placed in the
first degree might possibly belong to the second;
and a greater number, if the truth were known,
were occasioned by intemperance than is here
given. It is, however, as correct as could be made
from the data furnished, and may approximate the
truth. Murders and assassinations in the first degree
, 118, of which 20 were attended with robbery;
14 in quarrels growing out of previous misunderstanding
; 24 in sudden quarrels; 7 in drunken
rows; 38' in affrays, rencontres, etc .; riots and fire-
men's fights, 16; officers killed in trying to arrest
criminals and executing civil process, 3; persons
killed resisting civil officers, 6; by persons insane,
6; wives killed by husbands, 13; husbands by
wives, 4; women by other than husbands, 10; women
by women, 3; infanticide, 11; children killed
by other than parents, 4; negroes by whites, 13;
whites by negroes, 11; lynched to death, 6; in a
prize fight, 1; fist fight, 2; in a duel, 2; in trying
to separate combatants, 2; cases of mystery, such
as being found dead, with marks of violence leading
to a supposition of murder, 5. Among the foregoing
, 13 were occasioned by adultery, jealousy,
seduction, etc. Murder of father, 1; of mother, 1;
of brothers, 2. The modus operandi, as nearly as
could be made out from the notices, were killing by
blows with axes, hatchets, colts, bludgeons, iron
bars, etc., 51; stabbing, cutting the throat, etc., 42;
poisoned, 4, not including the 33 in Texas; drowned,
9; hung, 5, strangled and choked to death, 4; by
blows with the fist, 4; cutting off the head, 1- in a
quarrel about parched corn; scald to death, 1- an
infant, in trying to scald its mother; whipped to
death, 3- one a negro girl 8 years old; killed by
kicks, 2; burnt alive while committing arson, 1-
sick brother; drenched to death with whisky,
while in a state of intoxication, 1; by shooting, 75.
Of the remainder, the process was not stated; 8
were by soldiers and volunteers. The
of these
two States having the highest number were Louisi-
ana, 31- 39.[ We fear there are some
big errors Kentucky in the above.- Cres.]
