Correspondence of the Nashville True Whig.
The Death of E. P. McGinty, Esq.- Murder of a
White Woman by a Negro- Summary Punishment
- Lynch Law.
, Tenn., Sept. 26th 1855.
DEAR WALKER SPARTA: -I was truly sorry to learn
through the columns of the" True Whig," the
other day, that Mr. McGINTY was no more. There
was not a man in Tennessee for whom I had a higher
esteem. Having had the pleasure of a personal
a
acquaintance with him for several years, I can sin-
a
cerely say that I have never had a friend with
whom I could enjoy a more pleasant and profitable
social hour. For the last two or three years in
particular, his readers were becoming almost enthusiastic
in their admiration for him. He was so honest
, so consistent, that none who knew him could
a but" love him." Though his numerous admirers
regret- yet they murmur not- because" it is ap-
, pointed to all men once to die" -that he should
thus be stricken down by the cruel archer death, in
the meridian of his usefulness. I trust that his
noble spirit is with the blessed.
We have been in the midst of a terrible excitement
here for the last day or two. Some weeks
since, a runaway negro came across a poor defenseless
woman on the Cumberland mountain, and after
violating her person in the most heinous manner,
murdered her. The circumstances were of such
an aggravated character, that the citizens of the
surrounding county determined on his speedy execution
. After he was caught, all the preliminary
arrangements were made to hang him, but milder
council prevailed and he was for the time deliver-
,
ed over to the hands of the law. At the present
term of the court a true bill was found, yet when
his case was called, in consequence of the excitement
, it was continued for one term. The multitude
became apparently ungovernable. So when
our most excellent Judge, the Hon. J. C. Goodal,
was informed of the fact, he ordered the Sheriff to
summon a guard of twelve men to protect the
negro until the next term of the court. But a
large number of the citizens of White county,
about dark, repaired to the jail, broke open tie
doors, after overawing the guard, took the negro
out and carried him to a tree, some two or three
hundred yards off, to the execution. Before doing
which, he was given a half hour to pray. At
this juncture, Parson King, of this place, and Tim.
H. Williams, Esq., made short appeals to the crowd
to stay their fell purpose, but to no avail. When
the time expired allowed him, he was swung up,
and remained there until this morning. The coroner
I think, now has his body bolding an inquest
over it. As to the motive which urged the people
to do this deed, it cannot be impugned. It proceeded
not from a bad heart, for a bare recital of
the barbarious and inhuman act which caused them
to do it, would make one's blood run cold. Yet a
law abiding people should never go into such rash
proceedings, without the most mature deliberation,
as there rarely ever occurs a case justifying them.
Respectfully, your friend,
W. ol H. T.
