nications were read from Mr.
HARRISONBURG, June 9.- The Randall ex- president of the Baltimore Butchers
citement about Port Republie, bas at last led tion. One announced the
to tragic deeds. Last night, Jeff Randall Butchers' Society in this city,
was hung by the citizens in an old house ful operation; the other speaks
some propositions, such as holding
near Port Republic, and what may yet fol- tion of butchers,& c., and also
law it is impossible to conjecture. The ex- of cattle in Baltimore. Mr.
citement is very great, and the people seem they had written to New York
determined to rid themselves of the depreda- and Cincinnati, and the butchers
eities were willing to have a
tors upon their property. In a few days you the purpose of comparing
will hear all the particulars. It is terrible proper method of purchasing
to think that mob law has been found neces- said that what they wanted
in old Rockingham, but still it may be meeting, was to agree with
sary
adopting a uniform price for the
justifiable. the
. XX abolish
cattle, and also to
then sub itted several resolutions
BAPTIST ANNIVERSARY.- MONDAY.- The
were adopted the first of which
,
Association proceeded to appoint correspon- convention at Baltimore on the
ding messengers to the General Associations day in September next, of
of the States of Kentucky, N. Carolina, S. from the butchers of all the
Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Middle Tennes- and towns in the United States
see, and Maryland, and to the Goshen, West- The prominent propositions
eru, Preston, and North Western Associated to the convention are to abolish
tions. altogether in the purchase of
The resolutions offered during the morn- tablish a board of purchase from
ing session, by Rev. A. M. Poindexter and and feeders of cattle only. To
laid on the table, were then called up, and all purchases. To form associations
ject the Association of education was by addressed Kev. Ro. Ryland upon the, Rev. sub- purchase city. To, who organize shall correspond in each
Mr. Bitting, Rev. John A. Broadus, Rev. T. rious boards and furnish
the state of the markets with
G. Jones, and Rev. Dr. Howell.
ply and demand,& c. The
The resolutions were then adopted.
TUESDAY MORNING.- Dr. Howell offered tional organization was
proposition. It was also also
