Galveston assisted with
follows: acquaintance with the noble art of defence, an
and who seldom appears on the scene with- then
Wardick, Mi- out finding a victim to be rescued or a ruf- prove
have been fian to be knocked down. The ruffian is al- ly
Wardick was ways a rough, burly brute, inaccessible to We
in taking reason, yielding to no argument but force, in
, attemp- and judging of men by their exterior. The Had
shot, but champion is slight, but active, wiry, and in- have
itinerant vincible in his rage. If for one instant he as
escaped from appeals to the reason of the better feelings to
; known of the wrongdoer, it is only that the novel-
ist may thereby aggravate the crime and
conducted further justify the avenger. The result is her
efficiency. delightful, and dull indeed is the reader cousins
Safety As- who does not wish for similar powers and her
the most opportunities of doing good. But when they
parts, the transport of admiration is over it may Slave
are appoin- still occur that that is not the ordinary way of
instruc- in which good is done in this world. A
pugilistic encounter in the streets must be
Donegan regarded as an exceptional occurrence. Fist- ago
a leather cuffs are not the daily bread of moral life. son
of a large The greater part of mankind, be their spirit
county, ever so high, are not a match for a drunken escape
negro. He paviour; or for the meanest adept. of the to
of Ellis prize ring. The good that is done is by after
burglary, other means. It is by täet, gentleness, per- in
negroes. suasion, by the evidence of sincerity, and
county.the inducements of kindness, that most peo- ville
, it was ple must do the little good they can ever among
back in the hope to do. This is the gentle force, this jail
Waxahachie, the art of defence open to all, and not de- the
him to pendent on youth, or sex, on sinew or bone. clock
. In It has not to go into the streets for its op- sons
of Don- portunities and does not require for the who
,
Busby, good of one being the destruction or injury without
appeared, of another. On the contray, it does good the
Donegan all around. yards
hazards. Having admitted that the more popular On
upon this, ideal of benevolence deals with blows rather the
, as than words, and must have a victim as well were
armed as an object, we
, are painfully aware that we in
in small stand at a disadvantage in disputing Lord should
continued till Palmerston's view of national duty in regard larm
same di- to the Slave Trade. His speech is to thor- but
neigh- oughly imbued with the popular idea that ed.
near one we are inclined to think he has been reliev- keys
equip- ing his unofficial ennui with a series of light cell
What they reading from the circulating libraries. fe each
Before sallies forth into the streets determined to party
manifest. find somebody whom it is necessarry to ed
killed both knock down. There is only one way of what
Busby was dealing with mankind. Don't talk of the the
side, and improved sentiment of Brazil, though it has
wounds.- given up the Slave Trade. It only yielded
balls. to force. Don't talk of Spain ever listening
to argument. She listens to none but that glish
is the age
of and reads truth only in(
guns our flag
dodge has
,.
New York. Taught by force, indeed, and ruled with a follows
rod of iron, even Spain, after the example his
and
grocery,
near the of Brazil, may eventually acquire a spon-
, which taneous humanity; but it must go through not
to her a hard tutelage, and England must be her tout
master. As for France, well, how about lice
storekeeper. France? Lord Palmerston dexterously re- small
she drop-
she held serves France for the percration of his speech, The
completed her to illustrate the influence of our example. coat
Having demonstrated by Spain and Brazil
the vase, that we could do nothing but by force, he ding
counter,
it to stand finally brings in France to augment of the
attended result, but omits to explain whether we won the
stating at France to our cause by what he had pre- ry
she would viously laid down to be the only means of
doing good Then as for the United States,
departure, there again. we are left in the dark. It is dead
occasion to
be consid- evident that the United States remain to be
articles in converted, but whether by broadsides or by
the lid gentler means Lord Palmerston does not giving
no bot- say. The argument rests, then, on the Poles
involves was
and it
solitary example of Brazil
the ingeni
,
-
front of her the supposition that, but for our squadrons, with
as they and the Act of Parliament which sets those
squadrons in motion, every port of Brazil
to say would become a mart of the Slave Trade caten
..
