A MURDERER HUNG BY A MOB.
From the St. Louis Democrat.
CAIRO, Oct. 10th, 1859.- Eds. Democrat: -We have
some few particulars of a most horrible instance of the
adoption and perpetration of the Lynch law, in Mound
City Sunday night.
It appears that on Saturday night last, a desperado of
considerable Vaughn, in company notoriety with in one that of locality the operatives, named at James Good-
inebriated an unknown, got on a spree, and became
to a considerable extent. Subsequently, the
two fell in with a carpenter or machinist from Pennsylva-
nia by John K. Charles
name similarly They
, afflicted
,.
continued together, and in the course of the evening or
of the evening's conversation, there seems to have been
a clash of opinion between Vaughn's companion and
Charles, resulting in a clash of arms- boots and fists.
They himself closed the, more and, in sober the ensuing man, got struggle rather, the Charles better proving of the
foundryman, observing which, Vaughn, who stood by,
drew a pistel and deliberately shot Charles through
the heart, killing him instantly. Vaughn as instantly
pursued disappeared who overtook, however, and him,, crossing Sun about lay, ten by to Kentucky Capt miles. Ferrell below, fled and Cairo. He others. was He,
was armed with a gun, which he presented, but was,
nevertheless, captured without difficulty, taken back to
Mound City and lodged in jail, to wait an examination.
Late Saturday night a crowd gathered, went to the jail,
and armed with a log as a battering ram, effected an entrance
, and taking Vanghn out, notified him that
minutes would be 15
generously allowed him to say his
prayers and attend to any other matters he chose, preparatory
to having his" mortal coil shuffled off." Hard-
appreciating the reality of the thing at first, his cries
when the truth began to break upon bim are represented
as heartrending- increasing in force and piteousness
as the stolid indifference of his captors showed how fixed
was their purpose for blood, and how surely the retribution
for his villainy was at hand. Neither prayers nor
eries could defer the appointed time however, and at the
minute he was run up on a tree by the excited throng,
where he hung till he was dead. He was left hanging
till this morning, when he was ent down by some of his
friends and taken away. The thing was done determinedly
, and at the scene of blood there seems to have been
general unanimity of feeling. The appearance of his
father, an individual enjoying considerable notoriety in
the same way as his son, and his companion of Satur-
day night, had well night cost them their lives, and
made themselves searce suddenly. they
