LOUISIANA VIGILANCE COMMITTEE.
Bernard Laconture, who had been driven
away from the country by the Vigilance
Committee in the Parish of Vermillion,
returned on Friday the 23d ult., on the
steamer A. W. Baker, and was killed a
day or two after by the Vigilance Commit-
tee at Cote Gellee, We received this information
from Captain Meynier, who in
came down on Monday last from St. the
the
Martinsville and New Iberia. The same
news has since reached us from other
say
sources.
The Ba Banner publishes the following letter
in regard to recent doings of the Ver- as
million Vigilance Committee:
VERMILLIONVILLE, Sept. 26. 1859.
There are now numbers of families al-
most entirely destitute, not only of the
necessaries of life, but even of water and fair
cow to furnish sustenance to suckling
babes, and without wood to cook a scanty
meal. We have seen a poor woman that a
was compelled by hunger, with the assis- of
tance of a ten year old boy and a dog, to
eatch a prairie hog to appease their hunger,
brought about by the vigilance committees
. And also a woman, with a number
of helpless children, who has to three
quarters of a mile to get a drink of water,
and forced to burn her yard fence, or to are
take the pickets from her house for cook-
ing purposes. These womens' husbands
have never been heard of since the 3d of
Sept.
The members of the Vigilance Commit.
tee have went so far as to take a man from es
the side of his dying child- having lost
his wife only a week before- tie his hands in
and take him away, but subsequently let
him off on being assured that he was innocent
of any crime. They chastised a
young lad only fourteen years old most on
cruelly; and recently a man that had been
driven away, returned from having noticed
an article in the New Orleans Courier, ces
which he supposed emenated from the in
Governor, was met on the road by some
members of the committee, and at midnight
on Saturday last the house in which
as
he had taken refuge was surrounded and
the inmates ordered to deliver it up. It
was the house of his mother- in- law.
After having sought admission and being
refused they the Vigilants- broke$
the door with an axe, and demanded
open
86
their intended victim who had secreted
,
himself in the second story. The house$
was occupied by seven women and eleven
children. The Vigilants rushed up stairs
in search of their prey, armed with guns,
pistols, ete. The lady of the house said
she heard the order" fire!" given, and her
son- in- law fell dead on the spot, receiving$
a full charge of shot in his face, a ball in
his chin, which traversed his head, and
another ball in the pit of the stomach.
She further states that after the men
left the house, that they discharged their
gung at the window, and as she was stooping
to raise the body of the dead man,
shots came nigh hitting her in the head.
Pieces of the window sill struck her about
the face One of the women in the house
.
asked why they shot. They replied that
they were soldiers.
On the morning following( Sunday) she
came to town to make an affidvit against
the parties, but found no officer possessed
of a sufficient amount of temerity to perform
the duty. She then sought the
Coroner to have an inquest held on the
body, but that high functionary stated
that he had resigned his office. It was
with difficulty that could be had
to aid in burying the persons dead body;
