A Mob attempts to Hang an Acquitted Prisoner.
LYNCH LAW.
The Leavenworth Times, of September 18th,
comes to us with a long account of an attempt at
lynch law in that city. It appears that James A.
Gordon, accused of the murder of John Gantz in
a gambling saloon in that place, was, after a trial,
acquitted on some point of jurisdiction, and by
order of the Court, set at liberty.
The Marshal unbolts the chains, and as they
fell clanking to the floor, there arises a deep and
swelling sensation among the auditors There
. is
a rush towards the door of the court room. The
prisoner moves from his criminal seat to one beside
his counsel; his face, before marked with
calmness, now becomes flushed with emotion; turns
pale; now crimsoned; gazes upon the door with
uneasiness; turns towards the Court, and manifests
the feeling of a man who has passed one trying
ordeal to undertake another and more severe one.
Some time before Gordon was discharged rumors
flew about the streets that he would soon be
acquitted. Crowds rushed to the Courthouse to
ascertain the facts, some out of curiosity, others
breathing vengeance. The rumor proved true
The news spread like wild fire over the city, and
the crowd augmented.
The prisoner was now free to go wherever he
pleased, but dare not leave the court room for fear
of the angry crowd without. It was now apparent
that an attempt would be made to lynch him.
At this time the excitement was so intense that
clearly there was no other way to save Gordon's
life except by taking him to the county jail.
Accordingly he placed himself under charge of
the Mayor, and moved out of the court house.
When he entered the hall a scene of the wildest
excitement commenced. The Mayor, with Gor-
don and a posse of about fifty men, started down
the hall, and as the tossing crowd surged to and
fro, pressing against the officers and striving to get
at the prisoner, it was a commotion such as only a
mad crowd of human beings can get up. Down
into the street they went, the crowd yelling" Hang
him! hang him!" and the brave, stern officers
closing around made a firm wall of protection
Finally by dint great firmness, the Mayor land-
,
ed han safely in jail. But now the serious trouble
had just commenced. The crowd increased round
the jail and became more and more furious. Men
armed with muskets, knives and revolvers, gathered
thick and fast, and as the shades of night came
on, large bonfires were built up all around the jail,
throwing their lurid light far out over the city;
and the wild demoniac yells of the infuriated people
made it a scene terribly vivid and fearful.
During all this time, Mayor McDowell made
several speeches, urging obedience to the law, and
requesting the people to return home in quiet.-
That he was determined to enforce the law at all
hazards. It was finally agreed between the Mayor
and the ring- leaders of the riot that Gordon should
be delivered over to Sheriff Middaugh, and that
all further disorder and riotous proceedings should
cease on that being done. To this arrangement
the ruling spirits of the mob solemnly agreed. Aty
this juncture the Mayor left the jail for a few moments
to attend to some matters on this side of
the Creek. In his absence, and contrary to his
intentions, Gordon was brought out of jail and
turned over to Sheriff Middaugh, and now commenced
a scene of inad fury that beggars description
. The crowd rushed upon Gordon, crying like
demons," Hang him! hang him!" They forced
him down into the narrow and rocky glen north of
the jail. It was then about 8 o'clock at night,
and a thick darkness had settled upon the whole
city, and this fierce crowd raged in the dark glen
like demons. It was terrible. But the brave officers
stood by the prisoner like gallant men, and
sometimes almost overborne, they still recovered
and pressed forward holding Gordon safe in their
charge. Several times the crowd had a halter
around his neck, but each time an officer cut the
rope, and thus they struggled up out of the ravine,
and then followed a tumult and strife between the
officers and rioters that was desperate to the last
degree, up Fourth street to Shawnee, and down
Shawnee to the Planters' House. Here the crowd
halted, and the contest for half an hour was fierce
and terrific. The din, howl and confusion was
now worse than pandemonium, the prisoner begging
to be hung, killed or anything to take him
out of such agony. By this time every stitch of
clothing was torn off him.
The Mayor at last succeeded in organizing a
body these
solidly around Gordon and again started for the
,
jail which though a distance of about ten squares
,,
and across a ravine, was finally reached, after a
desperate struggle, and the prisoner again safely
landed from the fury of the mob.
Gordon is very badly, cut and lacerated,
and the Sheriff is also injured bruised.
