Great Excitment in Leavenworth -- Fearful
Demonstration of Lynch Law -- A Mob
Tttempting to Hang an Acquitted Prisoner
.
The Leavenworth Times of September comes to
us with a long account of an attempt at Lynch
Law in that city. It appears that James A. Gordoa
accused of the murder of John Gantz, in a gambling
sale on in that place, was, after trial. acquitted
on some point of jurisdiction, and, by order of the
Court, set at liberty.
THE SCENE IN COURT.
The Marshal unbolts the chains, and as they fell
clanking upon the floor, there arises a deep swelling
sensation among, the auditors. There is a rush towards
the door of court- room. The prisoner moves
from his criminal seat to one beside his counsel, his
face, before marked with calmness, now became
flushed with emotions; turns pale; now crimson,
gazes upon the floor with uneasiness; turns towards
posthe Court, and manifests the feelings of a man who
.
passed one trying order to undertake another
and more severe one.
THE EXCITEMENT SPREADS.
Sometime before Gordon was charged, rumors
flew about the street that he would soon be acquitted
. Crowds rushed to the Court House to ascertain
the facts, some out of curiosity and others
breathing vengeance. The rumors proved true.
The news spread like wildfire over the city, and the
orowds augmented.
The prisoner was now free to go where he pleased
, but dare not leave the court room for fear of the
angry crowd without. It was now apparent that
an attempt would be made to lynch him. At this
time the excitement was so intense that clearly there
was no other way to save Gordon's life except by
taking him to the County Jail.
SCENES IN THE STREET.
. Accordingly he placed himself under charge of the
Mayor, and moved out of the Court House. When
he entered the hall a scene of the wildest excitement
commenced. The Mayor, with Gordon and a posse
of about fifty men, started down the hall, and as the
seething, tossing caowd surged to and fro, pressing
against the officers and striving to get at the prisoner
, it was a commotion such as only a mad crowd
of human beings can get up. Down into the street
they went, the crowd yelling" Hang him! hang
him!" and the brave. stern officers closing around
him, made a firm wall of protection. Finally, by
dint of great firmness, the Mayor landed him safely
in jail. But now the serious trouble had just commenced
. The crowd increased around the jail and
became more and more furious. Men armed with
muskets and revolvers and knives gathered thick
and fast, and as the shades of night came on, large
bonfires were built up all around the jail, throwing
their lurid light far out over the city; and the wild,
demoniac yells of the infuriated people made it a
scene terribly vivid and fearful.
FAITHLESSNESS OF THE MOB.
During all this time, Mayor McDowell made several
speeches, urging obedience to the law and requesting
the people to return home in quiet. That
he was determined to enforce the law at all hazards.
It was finally agreed between the Mayor and the
ringleaders of the riot that Gordon should be delivered
over to Sheriff Middaugh, and that all further
disorder and riotouts proceedings should cease
on that being done. To this arrangement, the
ruling spirits of the mob solemnly agreed. At this
juncture, the Mayor left the jail for a few moments
to attend to some matters on this side of the creek.
In his absence, and contrary to his intentions, Gor-
don was brought out of the jail and turned over to
Sheriff Middaugh, and now commenced a scene of
Imad fury that beggars description. The crowd
rushed upon Gordon crying like demons," Hang
"
him
"
him!" Hang! They forced him down into
the narrow and rocky glen North of the jail. It was
then about eight o'clock at night, and a thick darkness
had settled upon the whole city, and this fierce
crowd raged in that drak glen like demons. It was
terrible. But the brave officers stood by the pris-
oner like gallant men, and sometimes almost overborne
they still recovered and pressed forward,
holding their priscner safe in their charge. Several
times the crowd had a halter around his neck,
but each time an officer cut the rope, and thus they
struggled up out of the ravine; and then followed
a tumult and strife between the officers and rioters,
that was desparate to the last degree, up Fourth
street to Shawnee, and down Shawnee to the Planter's
House. Here the crowd halted, and the contest
, for half an hour, was fierce and terrific. The
4in howl and confusion was now worse than
pandemonium
, the prisoner begged to be hung, killed, or
anything to take him out of such agony. By this
time every stitch of clothing was torn off him, and
he had nothing on his body but his clanking chains.
THE PRISONER SATED.
The Mayor at last succeeded in organizing a fresh
body of citizens, and with these he closed solidly
around Gordon and again started for the jail, which
though a distance of about ten squares and across
the ravine, was finally reached, after a desperate
struggle, and the prisoner again safely landed from
the fury of the mob.
Gordon very badly bruised, cut and lacerated,
and the Sheriff is is also injured.
