THE NEW YORK RIOT.
THE POPULAR TUMULT ON WEDNESDAY- DREADFUL
CONFLICTS BETWEEN THE MILITARY AND
THE PEOPLE- FEARFUL SCENES,& c.,& c. obscene
We copy from the New York Herald of last Thure-
day, July 16th, many details of the terrible proceedings
which were enacted in that city on Wednesday last .--
As was stated in the Whig of yesterday, the Herald of
Saturday last, two days later, stated that the riot had
been suppressed; that the military pa'read every street
of the city on Friday; and that Lincoln had ordered the
draft should proceed. What effect this be se deception
on the part of Lincoln would have upon the peopl, re-
mains to be seen.
The Ilerald of Wednesday has the fo lowing:
The draft tumult which opened in blood still continues
, creating a partial suspension of business. Yesterday
was marked by further depredations on life and
property. In one it stance lynch law was supreme, and
the general disposition of the masses who participated
in the disturbances was to repudiate all legal authority
and continue their previous career.
There were rumors of terrible things to come, which
the excited people should accomplish to ma ifes: their
hos ility to the drait. Open opposition to it and
strength to maintain it was proclaimed in the upper
districts.
ORGANIZATION OF THE CROWD.
The multitude, whose work of destruction and death
has been fully chronicled, have been fully organized.-
it to be divided
Orginally single concourse seems now
a,
into five, with about two thousand men in each. Each
has its district and leaders, and to this circumstance is
owing the difficulty of the small military and police force
to disperse them.
The plunder which marked the approach of the crowd
in some instances deprived it of the sympathy which it
received when its opposition to the draft led men to fire
the Provost Marshal's headquarters and destroy every
trace of the conscription; and it was openly and bitterly
denounced by the great class who have given such
forcible indications of their hostility to the obnoxious
law.
THE STORES CLOSED.
Throughout the day the city presented the appearance
of a staid holiday. The general commerce appeared to
stand still. Storekeepers in neighborhoods where a multitude
of people sacked dwellings anticipated further attacks
. In the principal streets the shutters were kept
and the proprietors had their doors on a jar, in order
up to suddenly close them in case of danger.
There were few, if any, jewelers' marts open. The
precious jems, gold and trinkets were prudently deemed
too costly a temptation to be exposed to apprehended
seizure.
This movement made business unexpectedly dull, to
the chagrin of traders. Some stores did not open
during the day.
THE SUSPENSION OF THE DRAFT.
The semi- official information which was published in
the Herald, that the draft had been suspended in New
York, and that in case of a y future attempt to enforce
it, its constitutionality would be tested in the courts,
under the direction of Governor Seymour, created great
joy through the city, and much astonishment was expressed
that the scenes of demolition should be continued
by those who opposed the conscription. A large
number, however, disbelieved the report, declaring it
was but an effort to restore order till regiments should
arrive, when the conscription might be rigorously enforced
. They deduced their opinion from the fact that
neither the President nor the Provost Marshel General
had given official notification of such an order to the
people. It will be noticed, however, that Col. Nugent
has given a public announcement of the suspension of
the draft.
The following is a copy of Col. Nugent's announe
ment:
THE DRAFT SUSPENDED.
NEW YORK, July 15.- The draft has been suspended
in New York city and Brooklyn.
ROBERT NUGENT,
Col. and Act'g Ass't Provost Mar'il Gen.
FRARFUL SCENE IN SEVENTH AVENUE.
At five o'clock Colonel Sherwood's battery of rifled 6-
pounders and a strong force of infantry, under command
of Col. Meyer, were ordered to the corner of 27th
street and Seventh Avenue to quell a serious disturbance
which had broken out at that point. On arriving there
they found the people busily engaged in rifling and gutting
the stores and private houses. Flames were issuing
from the widows, and the scene resembled closely many
similar ones which our citizens during the last few days
have been called to look on. Suspended from a lamppost
was the body of a black man, who had been hung
up a few minutes before. The firemen made their appearance
on the ground at the same time as the military.
The people who had been engaged in the work of destruction
retired behind the firemen, thus placing a barrier
of our brave firemen between themselves and the
military. It was this circumstance only which prevented
the d'scharge of the ifled field pieces. From the
housetops the usual salute of brickbats and stones
was showered down on the military. Several citizens
stepped up to Col. Meyer and informed him that men
were stationed on the housetops with rifles in their hands
ready to fire on his men. The Colonel thereupon order-
ed his men to keep a sharp lookout, and if any shots
were fired from the housetops to deliver a volley instantly
. At this time Judge McCunn appeared on the
scene, and entreated the Colonel" to spare those inno-
cent people." The Judge informed the Colonel that he
had, by authority from Gov. Seymour, been using his
influence to quell the disturbance. Colonel Meyer replied
that he, as a military man, had but to obey orders,
and if the people attempted to advance or fire on his
men he should certainly ordered it to be returned by a
volley. The infantry and artillery t' en elowly retired,
and had hardly reached the arsenal ere the disturbance
broke out with renewed violence, and word was brought
to General Sanford that two more negroes were daug
ling in mid air from the lamp posts.
. PRISONERS.
The pickets brought in a large number of prisoners,
dirty, ragged and bloody in appearance, but sullen and
determined in demeanor. With a jerk and a twist from
their captors they soon found themselves located in a
secure place. They were then tied up something like
trussed fowls, and left to meditate at their leisure.
W
THE CONTRABANDS.
The colored folks in the Twentieth ward suffered
very severely. Numberless were the atrocities perpe.
trated on them. They were hunted from their houses
the score. When caught they were hung up to lamp
posts by or beaten, jumped on, kicked and struck with iron
bars aud. heavy wooden clubs. At one time during
yesterday there were between fifty and sixty of these
people in the arsenal. Many of them were horribly
maimed and disfigured. No respect had been paid to
either sex, age or condition. One woman was burned
out of her house who had only been confined on Tues-
day. The poor creature and her helpless little one
Mane cared for a nesto is possible by Dr. Gilbert
Many affecting scenes took place between different members
of the ea me family who had given each other up as
lost, and met unexpectedly in the arsenal.
A DEATH.
John C. Henry a returned volunteer was shot and
,,
ki Tuesday night He standing in
instantly lei on. was
the crowd, and, being much under the influence of
liquor, commenced to incite the crowd to make an as-
8iult on the troops, one of hom turned round and shot
him dead on the spot.
BLOODY RIOT IN FIRST AVENUE.
At about 7 o'clock last evening a most bloody and deplorable
encounter took place between the United States
troops, now under arms in the city, aud the resident
civilians in the above designated loc ulity. It seems that
a crowd of some three thousand persons and more had
assembled here, and had begun to manifest anything
but pacific intentions. They soon went farther, and began
to indulge in acts of open violence, when it was
deemed necessary to send off in hot haste for a military
force to repress their operations.
A messenger was accordingly sent off, and the summons
was immediately obeyed.
In a very brief space of time, and while the crowd
was growing more riotous every moment, Colonel Wins-
low, of the Fifth Duryee Zouaves; Colonel Jourdan and
M- jor Robinson came up, in charge of the military, Col.
Winslow having the chief command The force coa-
sisted of three companies of soldiers, wit two howitzers
. They no sooner appeared on the ground than
they were assailed on all sides by stones, brick bats and
shots from revolvers, the male portion of the civilians
firing from the tops of the houses and the females from
the rear and windows.
The soldiers at once opened fire upon the mass assembled
about them from their mu kets, and simultaneously
the howitzers were pointed and discharged into the
houses and up the street. The effect produced is not
yet exactly known; but as the pieces were charged with
grape and canister, and t e crowd was very compact,
the casualties must have been nume ous. The action-
if it may be so called- lasted from twenty minutes to
half an hour. We regret to say t at Col. Jourdan
was severely wounded in the encounter. A Captain
and a Lieutenant of the New York Eta e National
Guard were also killed. Twenty or thirty soldiers fell
before the missiles of the infuriated crowd. Of the
latter, it is estimated fifteen or twenty were killed.
After fighting desperately that for half an hour, the sol.
diors were flusily driven back by the overwhelming
masses opposed to them, and retreated up 19th street
to Second Avenue, fighting determinedly all the time.
It was expected that the conflict would be renewed, as
reinforcements of soldiers were being sent up to the
of action. V
THE NECRO TROUBLES YORK STREET SACKED- THE NE-
GROES LEAVING IN MULTITUDES.
The poor negroes, or what is left of them, are hourly
leaving the city. They complain that they are hardly
allowed even the privilege of escaping. Everywhere
throughout the city they are driven about like sheep
ard numbers killed of whom no account will ever
are,
be learned. There is but one quarter where these unfortunates
live which has remained unharmed- Sullivan
street, in the Eighta ward. This anomally is explained
by the fast that they have wisely locked themselves
within the r houses, and thus kept public attention from
being attracted to them Sotne few who have ventured
upon the streets, in order to procure the necessaries of
life, have been stoned, but none have been killed.
The Fifth ward, reported quiet in yesterday's paper,
has since that issue been in a state of terrible excite-
ment. The prominent negro locality has been almost
demolished, and upwards of two hundred blacks thrown
homeless upon the streets. This was in York street, a
small thoroughfare running a block from West Broad-
way, near Canal street. The crowd appeared on Wed-
nesday evening with carts, and driving the negroes into
their yards, commenced to remove all the furniture
which seemed of value. Several pianos were stolen
,
sofas, chairs and tables were appropriated. No police
appeared, as they had nearly all been detailed for du'y
at the central office, a few only staying behind, in order
to protect the station- house. It is estimated that seve-
thousand dollars worth of property was thus stolen
ral
.
Of course the negroes offered no resistance. They
stood passively by, begging the people not to harm
them, as they were helpless. The leaders said that if
they kept quiet all would be right. One of them, however
, in attempting to escape, was severely beaten, if
not killed, it being said that he was on his way to the
police headquarters to get aid.
This was the rumor probably that led to the subse-
quent scenes. About midnight several persons assembled
on the corner of York street and West Broadway,
and commenced to denounce the negroes in bitter
terms. A large crowd now assembled, and it was not
long before the attack commenced. Bricks, stones and
every convenient missile were thrown at the windows.meat
Several thousands had now gathered, and the excite-
ment became intense. Excited orators made speeches
denouncing the draft and the negroes, and urging the
people to stand firm in the defence of their rights. One
who counselled peace was driven from the ground.
the most extreme opinions could be uttered with
Only safety.
It was not long before the attack became general.-
The doors of the houses were broken in, and the ne-
groes were badly beaten. A boy is said to have been
killed by a brickbat thrown through a window. An old
man named Peter Ritchie had his head spit open. He
was taken away a d has not since been heard from.-
The blacks made no resistance, but begged for mercy.
Some of the leaders, therefore, ordered the crowd mere-
y to eack the buildings and leave the people alone.-
Thereafter, it is reported, no one was injured. A hun-
dred or two of negroes from other sections of the ward,
hearing of the trouble, immediately sought shelter in
more congenial localities. After the trouble a squadron
of cavalry appeared, and remained during the rest of
the night.
The whole of York street, excepting one building
occupied by I alians, is, as nearly as anything but fire
can accomplish, destroyed. To- day, the blacks returned
to their homes for the purpose of gathering up what
was left of their furniture, and leaving. Our reporter,
in company with Sergeant Brooks, an energetic but
humane officer, made an inspection of the destroyed
quarter. The sergeant asked where the people were
clothes and understand
going Being in citizen's, not
.
ing his official character, he was immediately regarded
as a spy, and the women ran away in terror. Showing
his shield one of the females became re- assured, and
communicated quite freely about everything but their
place of destination. That the would not tell, and it
was amusing to see the terror depicted upon the faces
of those around, who feared she would. The negroes
thought they identified some of the assailants on the
opposite corner, and the sergeant, in company with two
officers, a rested them. They could not be identified,
however.
In one of these buildings even the walls were torn
down. A white family, te head of which is a returned
volunteer, sat in the centre of a mass of negroes, all of
whom seemed utterly unable to decide on any course of
action. An aged and very intelligent negro said that ne
could not understand why the white people were so
much incensed against them." In fact," said he," I do
no: believe that they hate us much, for we have lived
peaceably with them for years. There are some thieves,
however, who set the boys at us, and thus get a crowd
together, and then they take our lives and steal our
"
property."
" Bat, asked a bystander," don't you think it would
be better to leave the town altogether?"
" Where shall we go to?" asked the negro." If any
large numbers of us get together anywhere, there is
likely to be the same trouble. The truth is, we are safe,
nowhere, except by ourselves."
There seems, in fact, to be a sort of settled feeling
among the negroes that they will ever be an unfortunate
race in the United States. The Eastern and other boats
of last evening and this morning were crowded with
them, the wanderers believing that for a time, they will
be safe down among the Yankees, or in the interior of
this State; many of them were without money and beg-
ged their passage, while others were apparently well
supplied with the necessary funds, and in some cases,
helped their brethren on their way.
DESTRUCTION OF A STATION HOUSE AND FIRE BELL TOWER.
About 12 o'clock the crowd set fire to the police station
house in 22d street, between First and Second Avenues
. The flames soon extended to the fire bell tower
and also to the house of Engine Company No. 51, and
in a very short time they were all destroyed. Loss
about$ 25,000.
Yesterday forenoon the people again congregated in
32d street, between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, and
made en attack on a tenement house occupied by colored
families. A negro drew a pistol and shot down a
young man named Healy, a member of Eighteen fire
engine. This act enraged the friends of deceased; they
pursued the negra, caught him in the tenement hou e in
32d street, conveyed him to the street, and hung iim to
a lamp post. Tenements of these colored people were
then fired and the building burnt to the ground.
Later in the day the crowd pressed forward into 28th
street near Seventh avenue. There they searched another
,
other tenement occupied by colored people, fired the
premises, but did not burn it all down. A other negro
was here captured, and, after maltreating him, he was
hung to the lamp post, where the poor victim hung for
the time kicking until strangled to death. The boys
then pelted the body with all kinds of mis iles.
The military from the arsenal went out in force and
fired on the crowd, killing and wounding many. The
mi itary then wheeled, and on their return through
Thirty sixth street, a man dressed in soldier's uniform,
standing on a stoop, threw a stone at the military, which
struck one of the soldiers The cfficer in command
halted and ordered six of his men to fire. They took
.
aim at the man on the stoop, and he fell dead. We
understand the deceased was on furlough visiting his
friends,
At 10 o'clock last night word came to the headquar-
of police that a large body of Third
ters people were in
avenue and Toirty third street and had broken
, just|
into a grocery store on that corner. A force was
to aid in quelling the disturbance, sent
