9,
THE REV. DR. MOSES D. HOGE'S AL-
DRESS BEFORE THE SYNOD.
5th, The Fincastle( Va.)" Express" of Friday
issue, last furnishes the following outlines of the
to Rev. M. D. Hoge's address before the Synod of
lost
Virginia, which was held a few days since a
Salem:
We had the pleasure of attending the session
of this body at Salem last week; and
of whilst we met many learned Doctors and
of heard various discourses, there was lotion
in which excited general interest and atten-
or tion as the simple so narration by Rev. M. D.
lore of the res geste in his late mission to
Europe:
5th In a plain narrative, unadorned by any
thing of the thrilling eloquence with which
he is accredited by general repute, he enter-
Insustained the crowded audience with the inci-
Pe- dents of his voyage and subsequent business
and social intercourse with various associations
and men of distinction in London and
other places, for two hours, on Friday morning
. He stated briefly the purposes of his
mission and his cordial reception and liberal
treatment at Nassau. How that on his arri-
to val in London he was invited to appear before
the Board of Publication( presided over
or
by Lord Shaftesbury), who, after listening
with profound interest to his statement of our
condition on this side of the water, refused to
sell him any books, announcing their deter-
of mination to make him a magnificent donation
of books suitable to the wants of our soldiers
( mostly Bibles). This gift it was subsequently
proposed, at the instance of some few Qua-
ker Abolitionists, members of the Board, to
as clog with certain conditious of distributions to
the slaves.
This donation, as qualified. Dr. II. very
of promptly rejected- assuring them that we
were better qualified to provide for the spiritu-
of al wants of our slaves, and at the same time,
fully as much disposed to do so as they could
be- that the best way for them to contribute
to the spiritual wants of our slaves was to put
the Bible into the hands of the masters. That
as slaves in this country, who could use and
, desired to have a copy of the Scripture could
always obtain it. The result was, the
, gift was made absolute and unconditional that.
, Besides the various contributions placed at
sees his disposal, he purchased to the amount of
of funds on hand: amounting, in the aggregate,
of to a larger supply than we have ever been in
possession of. la response to enquiries as to
how the Christians of England regarded the
,
religious attitude of our enemy? Doctor II.
asserts that it is universally looked upon as
the greatest phenomenon of the times, that
professed Christians of the North can adopt a
G. course of conduct so at variance with the
the teachings of their creed. That whilst there
are no pro- slavery men in England, yet,
during a stay of ten months, he had met but
one single individual who did not arow
ded sympathy with the cause of the South
re- against the North in our tremendous strug
act gle for existence.
We are grateful to learn from Dr. H. that, cons
the trary to the assertions of Yaukee papers and cor-
in respondents, Spurgeon, the distingutshed Bap
to tist revivalist, is certainly now decided and severe
in his condemnation of the Yankee Govern-
ment.
3d And, likewise, that the eminent historian,
Thomas Carlisle, is friendly to our cause; and that
to the old joker langhed immoderately at the mention
of the mob, in New York, hanging the ne-
groes to the lamp posts. Two significant facts
brought out by Dr. II's. observations, are
, that there is still, even in the well- in
formed circles of England and Scotland, a surprising
degree of ignorance as to the conditions
of the slaves in the country; and that the overthrow
of our Government has rendered them immoderately
attached to their own establishment,
and hence opposed to any war measures that
may have the most distant bearing upon the
. permanency.
