LYNCHED WOMAN A
Kate Maxwell, the Notorious
" Cattle Queen," Hanged
COWBOYS' HORRIBLE REVENGE.
James Averill, a Postmaster, Died With
the Woman.
The Notorious Pair Well- Known Cattle
Thieves- Placed on Horses With a Ropo
Around Their Neck- The Horses Driven
from Under Them and the Man's Body
Filled With Bullets- Horrible Blasphemy
by the Woman.
CHEYENNE, Wy., July 23.- Kate Maxwell,
the noted" cattle queen," and her partner,
James Averill, postmaster at Sweet Water
River, Wyoming, have been lynched at that
place by cowboys. The couple were at the
head of a gang of" rustlers" or cattle
thieves.
Kate Maxwell was the her oine of a sensational
story which appeared in the news-
throughout the country three
papers
months ago, when she raided a gambling-
house and recovered a large sum of money
won from her employers. Stockmen of the
Sweetwater region have been the victims
of cattle- thieves for years. On account of
prejudice against the large outfits, it has
been impossible to convict for these
offences, and the rustlers have become very
bold.
Averill and his remarkable partner have
been very active in thieving. The woman
could hold her own on the range, riding
like a demon, shooting on the slightest pretext
and handling the lariat and branding
iron with the skill of the most expert vaquero
. Fifty freshly branded yearling
steers were counted in the Averill and Maxwell
herds Saturday morning. A stock detective
whose suspicions were aroused, was
driven from this place when he was noticed
viewing the stolen property. This circumstance
was reported to the ranchmen, who
determined to rid the country of the desperate
pair. Averill and the woman have
several times been ordered to emigrate or
cease appropriating Mavericks, but had
disregarded all warnings. After her celebrated
gambling- house escapade, Mrs. Maxwell
degenerated from a picturesque Western
character into a reckless prairie virago
of loose morals, and lost most of her following
, but continued partnership with the
postmaster.
Word was passed along the river, and
fifteen to twenty men gathered at a designated
place and galloped to the cabin of
Averil and Cattle Kate without unnecessary
noise. The rustlers were at home, and
a peep through the window disolosed the
thieves and a boy in their employ sitting
beside a fude fireplace smoking cigarettes.
As half a dozen mon rashed into the room,
a Winchester was poked through each
window and a command to throw up their
hands was given with unmistakable earnestness
. The trio sprang for their
weapons, but were quickly overpowered.
Avert begged and whined, protesting his
innocence. Kate cursed. Her execration
of the lynohers was something terrible in
its way. She cursed everything and every
body, ohallenging the Deity to harm her if
Ho possessed the power. An attempt was
me to gag her, but her strugsting was so
violent that this was abandoned. She called
for her own horse to ride to the tree elected
for a seafold, and vaulted astride the
animal's back from the ground. Averill
did not resist, and the boy, who had been
told that he would not be harmed, followed.
Either end of the same rope was fastened
about the necks of the rustlers as they sat
in their saddles. The boy made a pass with
a knife at the man who was preparing Kat
for hanging. He was knooked insensible
by a low with the butt of a revolver. The
lad was a nephew of the bandit queen.
When preperations for the execution had
been opleted Averill and the woman
were asked to speak. The man spoke only
of his office, saying that he did not wish a
certain man to be his successor. He was
promised the influence of the party for another
candidate.
Kate made quite an address. She wished
the affair kept as quiet as possible, desiring
that her mother bo- kept in ignorance of
her disgraceful career and tragio death. It
was useless to deny that their herd had
been stolen from ranchmen of that section,
but if they did not wish to divide it among
themselves she would lie to have it sold
and the money given to a home for homeless
girls. Kate bade her nephew good- by
and commenced to deliver a blasphemous
harangue.
The horses were led from under the pair
while Kate was still cursing. Both kicked
in lively style for 10 or 15 minutes. A few
bullets were fine lato Averill's body and
the lynchers rode away.
It is doubtful if an inquest will be held,
and the executioners have no fear of being
punished. The cattlemen have been forced
to this and more Hangings will unless
there is less theiving. follow
