Murderer Dean's Sallie Little
A MOB LYNCHED PRICE.
Strung Up by Masked Men.
EXECUTION SET FOR LAST FRIDAY.
A Respite by Governor Brown and the
Prospects of a New Trial Infuriated the
Citizens So That They Broke Open the
Jail and Hanged the Murderer.
DENTON, Md., July 3.- Marshall E.
Price, who waylaid, assaulted and murdered
little Sallie Dean while on her way
to school, and who on Monday received a
respite pending an appeal for a new trial,
was taken from jail here last night and
hanged to a tree.
Rumors reached the guard early in the
evening that many strangers had been
seen in the outskirts of town and that
lynching was probably their object. Price
upon learning this became greatly alarmed
and begged to be spirited away, but the
guards discovered to their dismay that ev.
ery avenue of escape was cut off and were
obliged by overpowering numbers to give
up their prisoner. The leaders wore masks,
but several of them are known.
Price was to have been executed on
Friday, but Tuesday morning Sheriff Berry
received a telegram announcing that
Governor Brown, acting on the advice of
Attorney General Poe, had granted a reprieve
until the court of appeals could
pass upon the case. When this became
known, the general discontent which had
begun to manifest itself as soon as the appeal
proceedings were commenced broke
into a storm, and a strong lynching party
was quietly and quickly organized.
When Sheriff Berry received official notice
of the reprieve, he withdrew the death
watch, and the jail, which is a poorly constructed
affair, was left practically unguarded
.
It could not have been defended against
a determined mob, however, except by a
strong armed force.
About 10 o'clock last night a crowd of
strangers began gathering in town, and
their presence created a great deal of excitement
among the citizens who had not
retired to rest. Sheriff Berry was notified,
and he and his deputies gathered at the
jail, determined to defend the prisoner until
the last.
Masked Men Surrounded the Jail.
An effort was made to find some avenue
of escape by which Price could be taken
from the reach of the avenging mob, but
every street leading from the jail was
found to be closely guarded by a strong
force.
A delegation from the lynchers, all
masked, waited upon Sheriff Berry, and
notified him not to attempt to remove the
prisoner. Then it was known that the attempt
at lynching, which had been rumored
for several days, would be made and
was near at hand.
Price had been resting quietly in his
cell during the early part of the evening,
but the sudden and unexpected appearance
of the sheriff and his deputies warned him
that something unusual was transpiring.
The prisoner became much excited. Finally
one of the guards told him of the
threatening mob about the jail, and he
cried out:
" For God's sake let me out! I will hide!
I will not run away!"
The lynchers completed their arrange-
ments about 11 o'clock, and in a body advanced
upon the jail and surrounded it.
They demanded the keys from Sheriff Berry
, and when that officer declined to give
them up they easily knocked open the
door. Once inside, the guards were quickly
overpowered, and soon Price's cell was
reached.
The prisoner was in a pitiable state of
excitement and fright, and his condition
was such that it was an easy matter to
get him out of the jail. A rope was thrown
over his head. He was hurried to a tree
near the jail and strung up without delay.
The mob stood around for some time
watching the man swinging in the moonlight
, and when it was known that he was
dead all departed.
Governor Brown, when informed of the
lynching of Price, said that he considered
it a great misfortune that the law was not
allowed to take its course. In granting the
reprieve he said he had only taken the one
course to be pursued. Exceptions had
been filed by Price's counsel, and these
had been sent to the court of appeals. As
this was necessary, according to law he
could not do otherwise than grant the respite
.
He recounted the suggestion made in his
message to the general assembly of incarcerating
in the penitentiary in Baltimore
all prisoners under sentence of death.
the suggestion had been acted upon, the
two recent lynchings would have
averted. been
