DENVER FEARS A RIOT.
Banks and Gun Stores Guarded
by Troops.
ANOTHER LYNCHING THREATENED.
The Mayor Issues a Proclamation Asking
Citizens and Others to Keep the Peace,
A Great Mob of Unemployed and Desperate
Men Throng the Streets.
DENVER, July 28.- The lynching of the
Italian Arata Thursday night has shown
the immense crowd of idle workmen at
present in Denver what can be accomplished
by violence, and there is a dread in
the minds of many citizens that a riot of
enormous size, having for its purpose the
looting of the city, may break out at any
time.
The thousands of unemployed workmen
already here are being augmented daily by
others from throughout the state, who are
gradually working their way to Denver.
The county and city and numerous char-
organizations are doing their best to
feed and shelter the great army of penniless
people, but they are incapable of meeting
the demands.
The banks of the city have called upon
the government troops at Fort Logan, of
which there are 700, to be ready to protect
their institutions in case of an outbreak.
The banks are United States depositories,
and thus have a right to ask government
protection.
Troops at the Armory.
Unemployed members of the state militia
and the Chaffee light artillery are now
under arms at the armory awaiting developments
.
Mayor Vanhorn issued a proclamation
requesting all good citizens not to congregate
on the streets, as it may lead to an
outbreak
. A large number of idle men attempted
to board a train at Fourteenth
street, but were repulsed by the trainmen.
Every precaution possible has been taken
by the different officials to prevent trouble,
and they are hopeful of success.
While the mob was hanging and brutally
dragging the body of Dan Arata through
the muddy streets a robber entered the office
of the assistant cashier of the Denver
Tramway company, and at the point of a
revolver demanded that he open the safe
and deliver over the cash. The cashier
grabbed a revolver and fired at the robber,
who returned the shot. Several rounds
were fired, but as no officer was within a
quarter of a wile of the scene the robber
escaped.
Officers have been stationed in all the
tough sections of the city who promptly
report any suspicious gatherings. The
Italian section especially is carefully
watched. Sheriff Burchinell quietly slipped
Naroi, the accessory to the murder of B. C.
Lightfoot, to the pen at Canon City to avoid
a repetition of last night's outrage.
It had been rumored about the city that
an attempt would be made to lynch him.
Details of the national guard have been
under arms watching the gun stores of the
city to see that no suspicious quantities of
ammunition might be distributed among
the incendiar.
It is the general opinion th t no steps
will be taken to prosecute any of the ringleaders
of the mob, though a few of them
will probably be indicted.
The coroner began an inquest on the body
of Arata today, but it was secret and nothing
has been given out.
Governor Waite was criticised severely
today because of his well known antipathy
to capital punishment. It is claimed that
the certainty of a reprieve should Arata be
convicted and sentenced to death had much
to do with the friends of the murdered man
aking the law into their own hands.
A company of Colorado national guard
was on duty in the People's National bank
all day and last night It was feared that
in the present excited state of the public
mind the developments in the affairs of
the bank might lead to an attack on the
institution
President Lawrence and his family left
the city, and the case against him was continued
to Saturday morning. The police
had their hands full last night. Several
thousand men swarmed in the lower sections
of the city without any definite purpose
in view.
Whenever they attempted to congregate,
or orators attempted to address them, the
gatherings were promptly dispersed.
The national guard was on duty at the
armory, and any attempt at disturbance
would have been promptly suppressed. The
chamber of commerce passed resolutions
demanding the removal of Chief of Police
Kellogg, who has just entered upon his
duties, and the appointment of some
able to cope with the present situation. man
