HANGED BY A MOB.
Taken From an Armed Posse, Tortured and
Afterward Burned.
MEMPHIS, July 24.- Lee Walker, the negro
who assaulted Miss Mollie McCadden
near Bond Station and on the same day assaulted
a colored girl, was lynched in spite
of the fact that 25 well armed deputy sheriffs
guarded the jail and that Sheriff Me-
Lendon had given it out that the mob
should not triumph. The lynching was
very similar to the Bardwell affair, the
body being cremated after the hanging in
full view of 1,000 men, women and children
.
When the attack on the jail began it was
not believed it would be successful, the
mob being composed chiefly of drunken
men and boys, and Sheriff McLendon or in
dered his men not to hurt anybody. The
crowd grew in numbers and broke down
the jail gates. Even then the sheriff would a
not permit his men to use their weapons.
Finally a rush was made and McLendon
was knocked senseless with a chair.
He was carried to a bedroom and the mob
battered down the doors, found Walker's
cell and got him out. He fought fiercely
and bit several men severely. He was
stabbed and slashed until the blood flowed
from him in torrents.
He was hustled off to a telegraph pole is
two blocks away and a rope was fastened
around his neck.
He was lifted up and his
then naked body swung clear of the ground.
Then a big railroad switchman pulled his
legs until his neck cracked. The same man
then mutilated the corpse. The negro was
dead or nearly so before he was hange 1.
There were probably 5.000 persons in the
crowd around the jail, but not more than
100 took an active part in the assault and
subsequent lynching. They were nearly
all railroad men. One of them stumbled
and fell while the victim was being carried
to the telegraph pole and the crowd
trampled on him, breaking his jaw and
probably injuring him fatally. Sheriff
Melendon is badly hurt. He seems to
have concussion of the brain.
Walker tried to commit suicide before he
was lynched by cutting his throat with a
glass bottle found in his cell. After the
body was cut down the mob raided a lumber
yard, and building a bonfire burned the
dead negro. The fire was built in the
dle of Front street near the jail. mid
