HOW M'KINLEY DEALT WITH A MOB.
He Knew of No Middle Course in Subduing
Rioters.
Nineteen months ago, when William
McKinley, now President of the United
States, was Governor of the State
of Ohio, news reached him at Colum-
bus that there was an infuriated mob
in the town of Tiffin, bent upon lynching
a criminal who had been thrown
into prison there. He learned, in reply
to a despatch that the prison
guards were not strong enough to resist
the mob, and that there were but
a few militiamen in the place at the
call of the Sheriff. In a moment Governor
McKinley sent orders by telegraph
to Toledo, Sandusky, Fremont
and Kenton that their militia compa-
ales be immediately despatched to Tif-
in.
Within a few hours, and before
the mob of lynchers had been able to
subdue the guards and breek into the
prison, a militia company from each of
the places named, or four companies in
all, had arrived at Tiffin, armed and
quipped, ready to try conciusions with
the lawbreakers. The maddened rioters
, several hundred in number, were
raging around the prison, toward
which the armed force hastened with
all possible speed, in accordance with
the Governor's orders. They were
commanded by an experienced and determined
officer, who had been selected
for duty by the Governor, and from
the railroad depot to the prison the
march was a quick one. The troops
advanced and levelled their rifles; the
rioters saw that they could not cope
with them; they wavered and fell
back; they were dispersed and over-
wed. The militia stayed at Tifin till
here was no further danger of an outbreak
; and the prisoner when they defended
was held safety tiil the time
trial appearance at
of. The prompt
Tiffin of a trained force, ready for service
, had prevented the lynching.
It was but an act of duty, required
for the perservation of the paace and
the maintenance of the supremacy of
the laws of the State, that Governor
McKinley performed. Yet it brought
him the credit which he deserved. He
did the right thing at the right moment
. He saved Ohio from disgrace.
Let his conduct, upon the occasion, be
contrasted with that of Governor Bush
nell, who permitted a neb of lynchers
at Urbana, Ohio, to perpetrate a crime
of the most shocking character. Had
Governor Bushnell acted with as great
prompitude and as much determination
as Governor McKinley acted in
and similar case, the most re-
another cent outrage would not have occurred.
