MOB LYNCHED THEM.
Marderers Gorman and Walters Shot
by Armed Citizens.
BUTTE, Mont., July 20.- A special
to the Miner from Red Lodge, Mont.,
says that Jim Gorman, who killed his
brother about a year ago and ran off
with his brother's wife, and a
named Walters, who killed a widow man
named Hoover at the Hot Springs two
years ago because she refused to marry
him, were lynched at Basin, Wyo.
C. E. Pierce, a deputy sheriff, was
killed during the attack on the jail.
A state of lawlessness now preva
in northern Wyoming, as a result of
which all law and order seems to have
been abolished. From President Mof-
fett of the Montana and Wyoming
Telephone company, who is now making
a tour of inspection of his company's
lines, comes the news of the
lynching and of an appeal for help
from Sheriff Fenton of Big Horn county
, who has arrested a number of
prominent cattlemen near Thermopolis
and has appealed to the governor of
Wyoming for assistance of the militia
in getting his prisoners to the Basin.
It was reported to Sheriff Fenton
last Wednesday morning that a mob
was coming up to Basin from Hiatts-
ville and Tonslip to lynch Gorman and
Walters, and the sheriff took these two
men and a horse thief from jail and secreted
them in a gully near the town
under the guard of Deputy Sheriffs
Alston and Pierce.
Gorman managed to slip his handcuffs
and make his escape. He swam
the Big Horn river( an unprecedented
feat) and made for the mountains. A
posse was quickly organized, and Gor
man was recaptured about fifty miles
from Basin.
Last night a mob of about fifty unmasked
men rode up the east bank of
the Big Horn and compelled the ferryman
to carry them across the river.
They made no demonstration until
they entered Basin, when five shots
were fired as a warning. The mob proceeded
at once to the county jail and
fired a volley into the jail.
Deputy Pierce and Special Deputy
Meade were guarding the prisoners at
the time. One bullet grazed Meade's
shoulder and entered Pierce's heart.
Members of the mob then tore up the
telephone poles and battered the jail
doors down. They first came to Wal-
ters, who was crouched in his cell begging
piteously for mercy. No needless
torture was resorted to. Walters was
shot instantly.
The mob next found Gorman,
body was pierced by five bullets whose and
was left presumably dead. He lingered
, however, until the forenoon.
A still more alarming state of affairs
is reported from the vicinity of Ther
mopolis. About six weeks ago, as a result
of the range feud that has been so
bitterly waged, a sheep man, Ben Min-
nick, was killed by cattlemen. The
sheriff, it is asserted, has captured the
murderers, who are all prominent cattlemen
and whose names have been
withheld owing to threats made against
the sheriff. Sheriff Fenton is unable to
get his prisoners to Basin. It is said
the same mob that lynched Gorman
and Walters are sympathizers and have
declared that Sheriff Fenton will never
get out of the locality alive with his
prisoners.
Sheriff Fenton has wired the governor
of Wyoming for permission to use
the state militia at Lander and has also
sent a telephone message to Basin and
other towns asking for volunteers to
assist him in upholding the law. Everywhere
hardy westerners are responding
to the call, arming themselves and
hastening toward Thermopolis. It is
probable the militia will be ordered to
the scene, and a bloody battle may be
fought. The country about Thermopo-
is is a wild and lawless one. The last
message from Sheriff Fenton said he
still held the prisoners and that he believed
could hold out until re- enforcements
he came.
