PROMISE A OF REAL REFORM
bold on the stand he has taken in an effort put to an
GOV. HUGH M. DORSEY of Georgia is to be congratulated
the sensational Williams case investigations, have disclosed a
end to negro atrocities and lynchings in his state. Following
lessness and cruelty could hardly be exceeded Russia in.
condition of affairs in this southern state, which for gross law-
Instead of trying cover to up and hide conditions Governor
Dorsey has taken the much wiser and more courageous course
of exposing the whole shameful record and calling on the people
of Georgia themselves clean house thoroughly and effectively
. to
In an effort to arouse the people of his state to a proper
sense of the conditions and to move them to action the Governor
has published in booklet form evidence of one hundred and
thirty- five instances of outrages against negroes in the State
of Georgia during the last two years
There are said to have been four. hundred and eighteen
crime against yet this sort of lynchings Georgia since 1885 in
the negro are but the smaller portion of the Governor's indict
ment of his people. Only in a very few cases was the" usual
crime" against white women involved while in many instances
the prosperity of the industry of the victims seem to have
been the occasion of offence.
counties some In": the the of statement the by Governor negro
An idea of the seriousness of the conditions is furnished
others beast wild; in were a though he out as driven being is
If": saying as is also Governor The conditions quoted indi-
he is being held a slave; in others no negroes remain."
cated by these charges should continue, both God and
would justly condemn Georgia more severely than God man and
man condemned Belgium and Leopold for the Congo atrocities
But worse than that condemnation would be the continued tol-
eration of such cruelties in Georgia."
The desperate conditions disclosed by the Governor and
the very practical measures recommended by him for their correction
give promise of real reform and a better name for the
State and less reason for the country at large to blush over the
record. Two laws which he asks for in order to deal
lynching with the lynching evil seem so well adapted for the purpose
that not only Georgia but the whole lynching infested area of
the United States could do much worse than adopt and enforce
them.
They are as follows:
( b) imposing a financial penalty
66
upon any county
in which a lynching may occur.
"( c) Authorizing the Governor of the State to appoint
at any time any three judges of the Superior
Court to act as a comission to investigate any lynching
occurring in any county of the State and empowering
the Governor to remove from office any public
official found by such official to have failed to enforce
or uphold the law."
But it is not alone the handling of outrages after they
have occurred that the Governor gives his attention to. He
goes back of the evidence of trouble to the cause and suggests
as a prevention" the organization of State committees on race
relations one committee composed of leading white citizens,
another of leaders among the negroes and local committees
made up in the same manner in each county of the State, the
committees to confer together when necessary concerning
matters vital to the welfare of both races."
For such a program other can heartily wish the Gov-
ernor and people of Georgia success states in carrying out.
