BY A COLORADO MOB
MURDERER LYNCHED
Convict Reynolds, the Slayer of
Captain Rooney, Strung
at Canyon City. Up
CANYON CITY, Colo., Jan. 27.- Thomas
Reynolds, the convict who, with three
others, escaped from the penitentiary after
murdering Night Captain William C.
Rooney, was captured to- night near Flor-
ence, ten miles east of Canyon City, and
brought to this place in a wagon. Here
he was taken from the officers by a mob
and hanged to a telegraph pole.
Night Captain of Police Connor of Flor-
ence, assisted by Policeman Powell, made
the capture on the bridge of the Flor-
ence and Cripple Creek Railroad, near
Florence. When word was sent to this
city of the capture a special train with
seven guards and a bloodhound were dis-
In the meantime
patched to the scene.
Captain Connor had started overland with
Reynolds.
Immediately on receipt of the news at
Canyon City the fire bells began to ring
and the residents were out en masse.
It was 10:45 when the carriage carrying
the bound form of the murderer crossed
the First street bridge under a guard of
four armed men. As the carriage passed
beneath the electric light at the center of
the bridge, men emerged from the darkness
at either end, closing in rapidly and
silently. Before the guards comprehended
what was intended they were overpow-
ered and disarmed.
Not a sound broke the stillness. There
were several hundred men in the crowd,
but apparently not one had a weapon.
The doomed man was dragged from the
vehicle and had hardly struck the ground
when a noose was slipped around his
neck and he was led to the nearest telegraph
pole. A man climbed the pole and,
throwing the rope over the cross- arm,
shouted:
" Pull away!"
Immediately the noose tightened
the chin of the convict. Before he under was
lifted from his feet an opportunity was
given him to make a statement. He
made no offer to speak. The signal
was
jerked into
given and Reynolds was
eternity.
He was" game" to the last. He went
into the air without a murmur. It was
then a shout broke from the mob.
When Reynolds was being bound in
Florence he asked the guard to put a bullet
through him before turning him over
to the citizens of Canyon City. The warden
was helpless. He sent his best men
to Florence, retaining only enough at the
prison to guard it. Expecting Reynolds
to be brought on the special train in
charge of Deputy Warden Sargent, he
had stationed extra guards at the depot
to render aid in case an attempt were
made to take the prisoner. All the guards
he could have mustered, however, would
have been powerless against the mob of
determined men.
It is said that Wagner, another escaped
convict, was with Reynolds when
he was first discovered, but escaped.
Reynolds and Wagner, with Antone
Wood and" Kid" Wallace, made their
escape from the penitentiary last Monday
night. Elaborate plans had been made for
a general delivery of the prisoners, but it
was frustrated by the action of one of the
guards, who succeeded in giving the
alarm. Night Captain
Rooney was
stabbed to death and two other guards
had been overpowered and bound when
the alarm was given and the four convicts
made a hasty escape without liberating
their fellow- prisoners.
On Wednesday night Woods and Wal-
lace, who are mere boys, were captured
near Victor. Reynolds is understood to be
the man who stabbed Captain Rooney,
Wagner holding the officer.
PUEBLO, Colo., Jan. 27.- Word has just
beeen received here that Sheriff Beaman,
with two bloodhounds from this city, has
struck Wagner's trail at Swallows,
miles west of here, and is coming eleven this
