NEGRO PRISONER
THREATENED
VIRGINIA MOB BY
Is Under Arrest for the
Murder of Two
at Skippers. Men
Militiamen Guard the Jail and the
Authorities Hope to Avoid the
Threatened Lynching, but
Troops May Be Attacked. the
RICHMOND, Va., March 24.- Since
early yesterday( Friday) afternoon. the
Governor of Virginia and the peace officers
of Emporia have been temporizing
with a mob which threatens to lynch a
negro prisoner. The militia has been ordered
into action and withdrawn
times in less than twenty- four hours three.
The negro who, with a white man, killed
Justice of the Peace Saunders and Mr.
Welton at Skippers, on Thursday, was,
after an all- night chase, captured on Fri-
day at Stoney Creek, Sussex County. He
confessed to the shooting of Saunders and
Welton and to several robberies. He is
the notorious negro Cotton, who escaped
from the Portsmouth, Va., jail some
months while under sentence of
death. ago
A crowd gathered at Emporia, the county
seat, bent on lynching Cotton upon his
arrival. Judge Goodwin wired the Governor
a request for troops, and the Governor
promptly ordered Company B, the
Richmond Blues, to report at the Coast
Line depot, where a special had been secured
. Later the Governor received from
the Judge a telegram stating that his
life was in danger if the troops were sent.
The Governor asked if he must construe
this as a withdrawal of the request, but
subsequently the Sheriff's indorsement
came and the troops were dispatched.
They arrived at the scene Friday
afternoon and surrounded the early jail.
At 9 o'clock last night it was reported
to the Judge that if the troops remained
at Emporia the mob would attack them.
It was then agreed that the Sheriff should
order the troops back, and a local guard
be placed the jail, the crowd agreeing
that the law at should take its course.
At 11 o'clock the jail was in charge of
the local guards and the military were
quartered in the courthouse. It was reported
, however, that a mob was approaching
from Pleasant Hill and another
from along the Atlantic and Danville
Railway.
At 1:40 a. m. the military were again
called upon to take charge of the jail, it
being reported that a lynching mob was
forming on the edge of the town. Major
Cutchins has the Governor for another
company wired.
A second company of the Blues was
accordingly ordered to Emporia, and
lynching now seems improbable. a
