NEW ORLEANS, Sept. 21.- There was
a quadruple lynching Ponchatoula,
Tangipahoa Parish, last in night.
The lynched men, all negroes, were:
Isaiah Rollings, aged 18, single;
Nathaniel Bowman, aged 47, leaves
wife and seven children; Charles
Elliott, aged 20, single; Bick-
ham, aged 20. George
The lynchings are the outgrowth of a
robbery committed on Tuesday night last,
when some negroes entered the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Hotfeldter and robbed
them of$ 250. As one of the negroes was
in the act of rifling the armoire, Mrs. Hot-
feldter sprang from her bed and grappied
with the burglar. Before her husband
could come to her rescue the negro dealt
her a stunning blow on the head which
knocked her senseless, and escaped. It is
feared she may lose her mind.
The citizens of Ponchatoula armed
themselves and organized à posse to hunt
down the burglars. As the perpetrators
were not positively known, it was determined
to run all the negroes of the
neighborhood who in were known to have
unsavory reputations. As a result fourteen
were arrested and landed in jail. At
9 o'clock last night the mob waited on
Sheriff Mix and demanded the keys of the
jail. These he refused to give up.
They then battered down the doors of
the jail and taking four of the negroes,
dragged them out and strung them up to
a single tree. The necks of three were
broken by the fall, but the other, George
Bickham. was strangled to death. No
shots were fired into their bodies, which
were left hanging until 7 o'clock this
morning.
The Coroner's jury returned the usual
verdict of" Came to their death at
hands of parties unknown." the
Posses of citizens are scouring the
country for other suspects, and it is almost
certain that other lynchings will
follow. The negroes are terrorized and
are flocking to churches as places of
safety. the
There have been more deeds of violence
in Tangipahoa Parish than in all the other
parishes of the State, combined. Up to
a recent date it was almost a weekly occurrence
for an assassination or a murder
to be committed. Moreover the perpetrator
would be tried and invariably
quitted. ac-
Armed Men Are Scouring the Country, and It Is Feared
That More Deeds Violence Will Be Committed
, as the of People Are Frenzied.
Dispatch The Call Special to
BY A LOUISIANA MOB
LYNCHING OF NEGROES
Attacked a Woman.
Suspected of Having Robbed a House and
