vengeance.
we can understand their wild desire for
" My remarks to- day are addressed not
so much to the fact that death has been
inflicted as to the manner in which it is
done. I do not by this mean to justify
lynch law. No well regulated citizen can
ever justify a departure from the law.
But every State has these affairs and
are not an exception." we
The Governor then disclaimed any responsibility
for the affair, saying that he
understood that Sheriff Freeman had
agreed to leave Porter in jail for eight
days and had gone out of town so believing
, only to return to meet the announcement
that the Sheriff and his prisoner
were on the way to Limon.
" This awful offense has been committed
by an entire county," he continued.
" There is no way of reaching these people
. As Lord Chatham said once,' You
cannot indict an entire nation.' In Lon-
coln County these offenders would have
to sit on the juries, indict themselves,
pass on the indictments, convict themselves
and then the chief offender of all,
the Sheriff of the county, would have to
conduct them to the penitentiary. So all
we can do is to declare that we as citizens
of the same State deplore and
demn this act of barbarity." con-
LIMON, Colo., Nov. 18.- After being
notified that some fragments of bones of
a human being had been found on the
prairie near this town, Coroner Brown
and a jury summoned by him gathered up
tne scarcely visible" remains" of John
Porter, the negro who was burned to
death on Friday night, and buried them
in a small box at the scene of the lyncn-
ing. The jurors signed a verdict to the
effect that the remains were those of
John, and that" the death was at
the hands Porter of parties unknown."
ENVER, Nov. 18.- A mass meet-
D ing was held here to- day for the
purpose of protesting against the
action of the mob at Limon,
Colo., which on Friday last
burned at the stake John Porter, who had
confessed that he had murdered 11- year-
old Louise Frost. C. M. Hobbs, president
of the Y. M. C. A., presided. Speeches
were made by prominent citizens, including
Governor Thomas, Mayor John-
son of Denver, President Slocum of Colo-
rado College; Rabbi Freedman and Rev.
Coyle of Denver; Mrs. Sarah
Platt
Decker, prominent in National Woman's
Club circles, and others. They all spoke
in strong terms condemning what was
termed the" Limon atrocity," and also
denounced the sensational display of the
write- ups concerning it in newspapers.
The audience was stirred to almost riotous
demonstrations of approval at times.
Resolutions adopted admit the difficulty
of adequately characterizing the crime
for which Porter was punished, but declare
that however much the negro, by
his crime, merited death, no crime can
justify recourse to such barbaric methods
, and while the action of the people of
Lincoln County is attributed to excitement
and passion it is none the less condemned
and discountenanced. Hope is
expressed that a law will be speedily enacted
in Colorado providing effective punishment
for crimes such as incited the
torture of Porter, and also that hereafter
each and every one will be punished for
taking the law into their own hands. The
remarks of Governor Thomas in part follow
:
" I do not believe the people of this
State are worse than the people of any
other State. This is as civilized a community
as any State in the Union, and in
all of them we hear of occurrences like
this, when the people have been
aroused to some such terrible act suddenly when
some such horrible crime as this negro's
cries to heaven for vengeance. For the
agonized parents and whatever they have
done, I have words of blame or censure
. Put ourselves no in their places and
Sees No Way of Reaching Offenders.
Colorado's Governor Deplores Torture of Negro, but
AGAINST BURNING AT STAKE
DENVER CITIZENS PROTEST
