DENVER, Nov. 14.- With sickening details
John Porter, the 16- year- old colored
boy who has been held by the Denver
police on the charge of having murdered
little Louise Frost near Limon, Colo., last
Thursday, confessed his terrible crime
this evening. A day or two more of the
stubborn resistance to the importunities
of the police undoubtedly would have resulted
in his release and salvation. John
Porter will now be sent to Limon, where
certain death awaits him at the hands of
the grim determined ranchers, who are
assembled at the railroad station and
searching every train that passes on the
way from Denver. That Porter is doomed
to die is beyond question. The manner
of his death is known only to those who
will act as his executioners. It has been
known for two days that the youthful
but fiendish murderer was weakening, but
it was not until his second subjection to
the police sweatbox to- day that he gave
signs of a complete breakdown.
With creditable foresight Sheriff Freeman
of Lincoln County sent an order to
have the bundle of clothes young Porter
shipped to his home in Lawrence seized
and returned to Denver. The suspense of
waiting for the return of the clothes was
increased by a wreck which delayed the
expressage, and it was not until noon that
the youth was confronted with a bloody
collection of clothes.
It was found that
the trousers worn by Porter were saturated
with blood from the bottom half
way to the knees, showing conclusively
the fiendish efforts made the murderer
to stamp out the life of by the victim.
The party of officers found
Louise
Frost's pocketbook in the closet at Limon
at midnight. This effectually
Porter's confession. confirms
With an affirmative report to- morrow by
Captain Armstrong, the murderer will be
turned over to the Sheriff of Lincoln
County, who must pass through Limon
on his way to the County Jail in Hugo.
Then another tragedy will be enacted.
pretends that Porter will escape
Nobody lynching.
Chief of Detectives Armstrong, Sheriff
Freeman and the father of the murdered
girl, accompanied by newspaper men,
went to Limon to- night to verify the murderer's
confession and to find the pocket
book taken from the victim and which
the murderer says he threw into the closet
at Limon station. With the finding of
the pocket book the last scruples of the
Denver police to turning over the negro
certain death will have been removed. to
When asked if little Louise had
screamed or resisted, the murderer
plied:" Oh, she cried a little." re-
At the second examination the sullen
demeanor of the murderer gave way to indifference
and with a brazenness almost
incredible he said:" Well, I done it." Little
by little from that on the horrifying
details were dragged from him. In substance
Porter stated that he had lain in
wait for the girl and as she drove up to
where he hid, he stepped out and seized
the horse's bridle. He ordered the girl
to get out of the buggy, which she did.
He then led the horse farther up the road
in order, as he stated, not to attract attention
. Then he seized the girl
by the
back of her and threatening her
with a knife forced neck her into the weeds.
LOUISE FROST. THE 11- YEAR- OLD GIRL WHO WAS MURDERED
NEAR LIMON, COLO., A MOST SHOCKING MANNER BY JOHN
PORTER, A NEGRO YOUTH IN.
MAKES FULL CONFESSION
LOUISE FROST'S SLAYER
Coloradans. Lynched by Be Doomed to
John Porter, the Fiendish Negro Youth,
