Mrs. Carrie Nation Occupies a Cell
in the Jail, but Displays No
Alarm During Disturbance
.
TOPEKA, Kans., Feb. 20.- The vigilance
of the officers was all that saved" Slick"
Slater from lynching by an infuriated
mob to- night. He will yet be lynched if
he can be found.
Slater attacked 17- year- old Lottie Ger-
berick Monday evening and was captured
by Topeka officers the next day in Car-
bondale. The officers kept the fact of the
capture quiet and placed Slater in the
County Jail here.
This afternoon it became known that
he was here and immediately the Santa
Fe shopmen, of whom the girl's father,
George Gerberick, Is one, decided that
should be lynched. They at once sent a
committee to watch the jail, while they
quietly arranged the details of the expected
lynching. By 6 o'clock there was
a mob of 1000 men around the County Jail,
demanding that the prisoner be delivered
to them. A brigade of sturdy Santa Fe
boller- makers, armed with heavy sledgehammers
, stood ready to make short work
of the jail in case the demands were not
granted.
Sheriff Cook told the crowd that the
prisoner had been removed and offered to
let a committee search the jail. Ten men,
headed by George Gerberick, made a thorough
search, but Slater could not be
found. They returned and told the mob,
but that failed to satisfy them, and twice
they started to break down the jail doors.
It developed that early in the afternoon
the Sheriff, in anticipation of trouble, ordered
a deputy to get Slater out of town.
He was ordered not to leave him in Jack-
son County or take him to Leavenworth.
The deputy drove to Hoyt with Slater
and boarded a north- bound Rock Island
train with him. It is thought here tonight
that Slater is now in jail in Atchi-
son.
The Santa Fe shopmen are determined
to lynch Slater when he is brought back
here for trial. They have appointed a
large vigilance committee to be constantly
on the lookout and vow that Slater will
never leave Topeka alive. The Santa Fe
shopmen have a past record in cases of
this kind. They lynched John Oliphant
twelve years ago for a like offense.
The County Jail, which the lynching
party visited in search of Slater, is the
same one in which Mrs. Nation is confined
. Mrs. Nation was much alarmed at
the course of the evening's events, but
fear for herself did not once enter her
mind as far as outward appearances
went.
The Law Enforcement army met at
the First Christian Church to- night and
on hearing of the projected attack on the
jail immediately sent a message to Sheriff
Cook saying that 300 from the Law Enforcement
League would be on the spot
to help to protect the jail from the fury
of the mob. This evidence of loyalty on
the part of her followers highly pleased
Mrs. Nation and she expressed her pleasure
with them in unmeasured terms.
Mrs. Nation said that the action of the
law enforcement people proved that they
were just what they claim to be- people
anxious for the enforcement of law and
who would not endure the thought of a
lynching being perpetrated here in To-
peka. Mrs. Nation is pleased that the
officers managed to get Slater away from
the fury of the mob so that he can receive
his punishment in the manner
scribed by law. pre-
Kansas Prisoner Hurried
Away Before
of Lynchers Gathering.
FOILS A MOB
ALERT SHERIFF
