AN JOSE, July 1.- For the second
S time George Suesser, who murdered
Sheriff Henry R. Farley of
Monterey County in September,
1899, has escaped the fury of a
mob and found shelter in the Santa Clara
County Jail. He was not safe even on
the train, for Thomas Farley, a brother
of the dead official, followed Sheriff
Keefe and his prisoner and between this
city and Salinas attempted to carry out
his oft- repeated threat that he would
avenge the Sheriff's death. But for the
action of a passenger and the courageous
conduct of Sheriff Keefe, who disarmed
Farley, Suesser would probably now be
occupying a slab in the Morgue.
Yesterday Suesser was taken from San
Quentin, where he had been under sentence
of death for the brutal murder of
the Sheriff, to Salinas, having been granted
a new trial by the Supreme Court on
the ground that he had been refused a
change of venue. At Gonzales, the home
of the Farleys, when it became known the
murderer was in Salinas, a band of some
twenty five men met and decided to lead
a mob- to lynch Suesser. Shotguns, rifles,
disarmed him. Sheriff Keefe Great ex-
A passenger grabbed Farley's hand and
Early this forenoon Sheriff Keefe learned
of these plans and this afternoon, with
Suesser in charge, stole away from the
jail, up a back street and boarded a train
for this city. He thought they had not
been observed. When half way between
Salinas and this city Thomas Farley came
into the car in which the Sheriff had his
prisoner. He halted back of Suesser and
asked:" George, why are you afraid of
me?" the same time drawing a revolver
from at his pocket.
This little band expected aid from the
citizens of Salinas, with whom Farley was
very popular. There is little doubt that
they would have been successful, as the
people of Monterey County in general believe
that Murderer Suesser will never
get his just deserts at the hands of the
law. So thoroughly was the band organized
and equipped that no jail could
withstood its attack. have
Call. The to Dispatch Special
sledgehammers and saws were procured
and to- night was set as the time for
breaking open the jail and lynching
Suesser. Salinas
| citement prevailed in the car and it was
necessary to keep a close watch on Far-
ley during the rest of the trip.
Farley has threatened to kill Suesser,
and those who know the disposition of
the young man are satisfied that he will
keep his word. Once before he attempted
to kill Suesser while the latter was being
taken to prison.
When brought to the County Jail Sues-
ser was almost in a state of collapse. He
realizes that unless the law places him
beyond the reach of the people of Mon-
terey County he will surely be killed.
At the time of the murder in 1899 Sues-
ser was brought here to escape a lynching
. After the excitement had subsided
he was taken back, tried, convicted and
sentenced to be hanged. Prejudice was
strong against him, but when he asked
for a change of venue it was denied. Upon
this point the Supreme Court has
him a new trial. granted
Suesser will be tried in this
county.
Sheriff Keefe, accompanied by Thomas
Farley, returned to Salinas on the late
train to- night. It is not likely that Sues-
ser will ever be taken to Salinas again,
for it is believed his escape was a narrow
one and that the people of Gonzales will
always be willing to head a mob
avenge Sheriff Farley's death. to
MOB GONZALES FROM SAVED IS
MURDERER OF SHERIFF FARLEY
