opening in its ranks, Sergeant Ellis pulled
Harris to his feet and started to run with
him up Greenwich street, while Officers
Hogan and Johnson held the crowd back
at the points of their revolvers. In the
darkness Harris managed to escape and
then the mob turned to vent its fury on
the saloon of Mrs. Powers.
With a cry of" burn the place down and
kill every one in it," the riotous soldiers
rushed into the saloon. Volley after volley
of stones was hurled through the windows
by those in the streets, while the
men inside quickly finished their work of
demolition.
" For God's sake, boys," cried Sergeant
Ellis," there are women upstairs; don't
harm them."
The only reply to the sergeant's appeal
was a shower of stones through the up-
per windows of the house, where Mrs.
Powers and her three daughters lay
huddled, trembling with fear for their
lives.
In thirty seconds from the assault on
the salcon the place was a wreck and
when the cry was," Let's do the
rest of the joints," raised the police officers re-
alized that they could not cope with the
mob.
DISPERSED BY WATER.
With quick instinct Sergeant Ellis
pulled open fire alarm box 425 and turned
in an alarm. In quick response came police
officers from all directions and a detachment
of the fire department. The
general call sounded within the Presidio,
calling out the guards. Squads of the
Fifteenth Cavalry and the Eighteenth Infantry
were hurried to the scene and
formed up in skirmish order.
While the guards of the Presidio were
hurrying to the scene the fire department
turned a hose on the riotous soldiers, dispersing
them in all directions. The police
charged with drawn clubs and the
law breakers were forced back and then
driven into the Presidio by the military
guards.
Yelling in disappointed rage, the rioters
hurled showers of rocks from within
the walls of the reservation, shattering
the windows of White& Crowley's saloon
close by
Again. the military guards charged in-
Two Page ntinued on
Continued on Page Two.
Mob Finally Dispersed by Firemen With
Hose, Assisted by Details of Cav-
a alry and Infantry From Reservation
SCENES NEAR THE ENTRANCE OF THE PRESIDIO, WHERE A MOB
OF INFURIATED SOLDIERS WRECKED ONE SALOON
AND DAMAGED ANOTHER BEFORE TOTALLY BEING DISPERSED.
ETWEEN 700 and 800 men of
B
the Forty- fifth and Forty-
sixth Volunteers participated
in a riot at the Lombard-
street entrance to the
sidio gates last night that Pre- re-
sulted in the complete demolition
of the saloon at the corner of Green-
wich and Baker streets, kept by Mrs.
Mary Powers. Considerable damage also
was done to White& Crowley's saloon,
and but for the bravery of three police
officers the riot would have ended in the
The trouble
murder of helpless women.
was culmination of an attempted robbery
the of a soldier earlier in the day.
The Forty- sixth Regiment was paid off
in the morning and mustered out of the
service. With hundreds of dollars in their
pockets, the discharged men started out
to celebrate their release from military
service. The saloons in the vicinity of the
Presidio were visited and it was not long
ere many of the ex- soldiers fell into the
hands of the sharks" who infest the entrances
to the" Presidio on payday.
About 4 p. m. two men of the Forty-
sixth Regiment were found by some of
their comrades in a comatose condition
near the Lombard- street gate of the reservation
. The men were taken into the
camp of the Forty- fifth Regiment and
were treated. When they came to their
they told a story of being drugged
senses and robbed in a saloon.
The men of the Forty- fifth Regiment
were soon in possession of the details of
the victims' stories, and with repetition
the occurrence was distorted and magni-
fled. It was even rumored that the two
had died.
men SOLDIER FOUND UNCONSCIOUS.
Abcut 7 p. m. two men of Company G,
Forty- fifth Infantry, found a man named
Morgan, a private the Forty- sixth Infantry
, lying on the of sidewalk near the
junction of Greenwich and Baker streets
covered with blood. Captain Loye of the
Forty- fifth Regiment was passing on 8.
car and went to their assistance and had
Morgan conveyed to the camp of his company
. He found$ 175 in Morgan's pockets,
and the soldiers who first discovered the
unconscious man said that two civilians
had tried to rob him, but that they had
driven them off. Medical aid was given
to Morgan and he revived sufficiently to
talk, but could give no clear account of
what had happened to him during the
evening.
Again the men of the Forty- fifth Regiment
heard a story of an attempt to rob a
comrade, and knowing that they would be
paid off next Monday and that similar attempts
might be made to rob them, they
at once proceeded to form a plan to wipe
out the saloons in the vicinity of the Lom-
bard street entrance to the Presidio where
the soldiers feared they might be
spoiled. de-
About 7:30 p. m. Police Officers Hogan
and Jackson observed groups of soldiers
standing at the corner of Greenwich and
Baker streets. The officers scented trouble,
as the soldiers moved away each time
they approached the groups of uniformed
men.
HURL ABUSE AT MRS. POWERS.
While the police officers followed one
group, another entered the saloon of Mrs.
Powers and started to abuse her. The
vilest of names were hurled at the woman
and she was accused of being a party to
the alleged drugging of soldiers earlier in
the day.
Mrs. Powers remonstrated with the
men, but they would not listen to her,
and when a man named Harris interfered
and told the soldiers to behave the spirit
of deviltry was let loose.
" He is one of dope gang!" yelled a
soldier of the Forty the- fifth Regiment.
" Let us hang him!" cried another.
" We might as well do up the
crowd!" yelled a third. whole
The uproar reached the ears of Police
Officers Hogan and Jackson, who were
half a block away, They ran at full speed
to the saloon and forced their way in."
The action of the officers was observed
and in a few seconds soldiers were heading
for the scene from all directions, while
shouts of fury filled the air. The crowd
grew with startling rapidity. Nearly 800
men were gathered around the saloon, all'
yelling like demons.
Most of the men belonged to the Forty-
fifth Regiment and only a few of the
ty- sixth could be seen. For-
RESCUE OFFICERS HARRIS.
The police officers forced their way to
the door with Harris and there found
themselves confronted with a big
of infuriated soldiers. crowd
" They are going to get him away from
us," shouted hundreds of voices." Damn
him, kill him, kill him," came the cry
from all sides as the soldiers hemmed
police officers around. the
Suddenly a rush was made and Harris
was felled to the ground. Murder was in
the eyes and hearts of the
crowd as
blows were rained with heavy sticks
the prostrate man. upon
With drawn revolvers the two police
officers kept a narrow circle around Har-
and threatened to kill the first man
ris who came nearer.
" Let's kill the whole lot," went up from
many throats, and at that instant Police
Sergeant T. Ellis dashed through
crowd from the rear. the
Madly fighting for their prey the soldiers
panted around the little group of
police officers and the man who lay at
their feet. In the scuffling the officers
and Harris were forced to the wall.
denly, as the surging of the mob left Sud- an
Riot Grows Out of Rumors That Two Volunteers of the
Forty- Sixth Infantry Had Died After Being
" Knockout" Drops in the Place and Robbed of Money Given
