The Call. Special Dispatch to
ALTURAS, July 3.- Out of the lynching
of old Calvin Hall, his three sons and
Daniel Yantis at Lookout there have devolved
feuds and bitter quarrels that
threaten te involve the people of Modoc
County for years to come. One of the
most sensational incidents resulting from
the lynching occurred to- day, when Superior
Judge Harrington gave Attorneys
J. E. Raker and G. F. Harris the alternative
of paying fines of$ 500 each or serving
five days in the County Jail for contempt
of court. In all probability the
two will serve time rather than pay
heavy fines. the
Raker and Harris appeared before
Judge Harrington to- day and applied for
a writ of habeas corpus in the cases of
R. H. Leventon, Isom Eades and J. W.
Brown, who are under indictment for
having led the mob that lynched the
Halls. They asked that the defendants
be released, alleging that Judge Harring-
ton and District Attorney Bonner had
given Witness Colburn money to remain
in Alturas and testify against the defendants
; that when Colburn became
frightened and started to leave town the
District Attorney had him placed in
for safe keeping. jail
Judge Harrington became furious over
the contents of this application for a writ
of habeas and after a terrific
corpus,
tongue lashing he pronounced sentence
upon the attorneys for contempt of court.
The Judge gave them July 5 to pay
the money or go to jail until.
The attorneys for Leventon, Eades&
Brown, on Monday applied to the court
to learn who sent certain telegrams to
the newspapers in regard to indictments
being found against the prisoners by the
Grand Jury. It seems that the prisoners
under arrest have not been shown the indictments
against them and have not
been informed officially of the charge under
which they were arrested, so they
are standing upon the constitutional provision
that it is unlawful to detain a man
in prison without informing him of the
charge against him. They claim that,
while they are kept in ignorance of the
charge, the newspapers are informed of
secret proceedings of the Grand Jury
the and the court.
Judge Harrington Imposes a
Fine or a Term
Heavy in Prison.
Attorneys for Lynchers
Are Adjudged
Contempt. in
MODOC LAWYERS
COURT PUNISHES
