Mrs. Perry Summers, the woman whose
evidence was largely instrumental in
causing the indictment of the alleged
lynchers, has been afraid to return to her
home in Lookout and is still in Alturas.
She fears that the friends of the lynchers
will wreak vengeance upon her should she
go back to the scene of the tragedy. Judge
Harrington has promised that she will be
protected while she remains in Alturas.
There have been no additional arrests of
alleged lynchers since the incarceration
of Robert Leventon, James Brown and
Isom Eades, and it does not appear likely
that there will be. The sympathy of the
Lookout country is with the prisoners,
and a formidable array of legal talent has
been engaged in their defense. Judge Har-
rington has telegraphed to Governor Gage
to send some good attorney to assist District
Attorney Bonner in the prosecution.
The case will be hard fought on both
sides. The prisoners will soon have their
hearing, at which time the date of their
trial will be set.
The prisoners are conducting themselves
coolly and apparently do not fear the outcome
. Their friends have already begun
to frame a defense, and it is likely there
will be some" tall swearing" done in court
when the cases are called. Lookout
zens visit the prisoners every day. citi-
ALTURAS, June 25.- Superior Judge
Harrington and District Attorney Bonner,
whose fearless attitude has resulted in
placing behind prison bars three men who
are accused of having been leaders of the
mob that hanged Calvin Hall, his three
sons and Daniel Yantis near Lookout, have
again stepped in to prevent the defeat of
Justice. A. C. Calburn, a young man who,
before the Grand Jury, gave damaging
testimony, against the prisoners, has since
then been threatened that it were better
for him if he should depart from this
district. Calburn, fearing an attempt upon
his life, closed up his affairs here and was
preparing to leave when the court officials
heard of his plans. District Attorney
Bonner at once ordered that he be
detained in the County Jail as a witness.
Calburn, through his attorney, applied for
a writ of habeas, but it was refused
by Judge Harrington corpus.
Thwart His Plan to Flee From
the Vengeance of
Lynchers
Special Dispatch to The. Call.
OF A WITNESS
CHECK FLIGHT
Modoc Court Officials
Order Young
to Prison Calburn.
