ADA NOT IN CUSTODY.
No Evidence to Connect Her
With the Murder
of Morris.
WILL REMAIN IN JAIL.
Prefers Seclusion to the Company
of the Men Who Are
Hounding Her.
NOW BEFORE THE GRAND JURY.
Bungling Work of the Detectives May
Make It Difficult to Convict
the McReynolds.
SONORA, CAL., Dec. 5.- Ada McRey-
nolds, the seventeen- year- old girl who
signed a statement for the private detectives
accusing her brothers, Albert and
Westley, of killing George Morris, the
operator and Wells Fargo agent at Chinese
Camp, last month, is again a free girl. The
Grand Jury and District Attorney Otis decided
this morning that there was absolutely
nothing on which the girl could be
held for murder and that she must be released
from Sheriff Yancey's mansion over
the hill. She was released all right, but
the child refused to leave the prison, saying
she preferred staying there than going
out into Sonora and seeing the people, who
would" stare me out of countenance," as
she put it.
" I want to wait until' maw' comes with
' paw' and I'll go home with them," Ada
said to Deputy Price, who let her out of
her cell and told her of the Grand Jury's
decision. The girl seems to have undergone
a revolution of feeling since her incarceration
and she has a perfect horror of
the men who were her intimates. Some of
the men, including Jasper Brown and a
man named Hopkins, have been hanging
about the County Jail ever since she has
been there, seeking an interview with
her. Of course the Sheriff denied them
that privilege, but they still waited until
hour when the girl stepped out and
the took a look at them and ran back.
" I don't want to see those men again.
I will not go away from here. Take me
somewhere, for God's sake, where I can
forget all this." As the girl exclaimed this
she threw herself into the arms of Mrs.
Yancey, wife of the Sheriff, whose family
occupy the front part of the jail as a
dwelling. Mrs. Yancey comforted the
weeping girl and brought her into the
house, where she will remain away from
the hounds that have been pursuing her.
Early this morning the Grand Jury convened
, and Ada McReynolds was one of
the first witnesses. She told her story
substantially as it appeared in THE CALL.
She told how Jasper Brown had become
her intimate friend and had coaxed her
to sign a paper stating that her brothers
had killed Morris. She related how
Brown knew that the statement was
false, but that he told her to sign it anyway
, because if she would it would prove
that Morris did not commit suicide. This
proof, to her, was equivalent to$ 5000, as
Brown said that the policy was made out
in her name. She signed as directed, but
only after M. J. Reilly, the other detective
, swore that he would have no arrests
made and that no trouble would come
of the whole thing. out
The girl's testimony presented both
Brown and Reilly in a bad light and they
were brought before the jury to explain
their position. They stated that the insurance
dodge was but a bait to induce the
girl to tell what she knew about the murder
, and they professed that their efforts
were made only in the interests of justice.
Brown produced an old Fireman's Fund
insurance envelope with the word" Fireman's
" blotted out. On this was written,
" Insurance policy,$ 5000; George Morris
in favor of Ada McReynolds." This
envelope and a telegraph message from
Reilly to Brown saying," Our general
agent is in town; bring Ada to see him,"
gave the girl all confidence that the insurance
money would be hers and no arrests
would be made, since both
and Brown said so. Reilly
The nature of the evidence was such that
the jurors promptly ordered the girl to be
liberated and incidentally took occasion to
let both Reilly and Brown know what they
thought of that class of detective
which they had exploited. work
" What can you expect from private detectives
?" District Attorney Otis said.
" They had no business to ever have arrested
that girl. The result of the
bungling work, principally on the part of
Brown, is that the Grand Jurors are very
much in a quandary."
The evidence on which to indict the Mc-
Reynolds for the murder of George Morris
is meager enough without all the" faking"
that has been indulged in, and the jury is
averse to taking action. If Westley Mc-
Reynolds is guilty of having murdered
George Morris he was not given sufficient
chance to talk and boast of it. Two or
three days' more detective work before he
was arrested would have fastened the
noose around the fellow's neck. He is a
talkative man, and some say he boasted
that he would kill the other Morris boys
he had their brother. as
Detective Reilly, Sheriff Yancey and
District Attorney Otis all procrastinated,
thinking it for the best, but Jasper Brown
drank too much, and began telling the
people about Chinese Camp that Westley
McReynolds was the murderer and was
about to be arrested. This talk precipi-
tated the action of the authorities. West-
ley McReynolds and his brother Albert
were arrested and housed in the County
Jail ahead of the time the mob assembled
to lynch them. Now Westley McReynolds
lies back in his dark cell and actually
laughs. He seems to be easy of feeling
and does not show any dread of the remade
sults of the terrible accusation
against him. Westley depends chiefly for
an acquittal on the testimony of the Ward
family. He claims that he was heard to
cough by them some time about the hour
when the murder was committed. If this
is the only alibi the accused can present
there is every likelihood that the detec-
will hang him.
tives The" cough" alibi was started some days
ago. Detective Reilly suggested it himself
to one of Westley McReynolds' friends,
saying:" I hear that the Wards for whom
Westley worked heard him coughing in
bed the night of the murder, but I don't
believe it." That was the bait Westley
McReynolds heard, and he swallowed it
Since that time he is depending on that
alibi. The Wards deny they saw Westley
that night. There is a wonderful revulsion
of feeling in regard to the accused
men since the methods of the private detectives
to obtain their conviction have
been bruited. It is now believed that even
if indictments are found a conviction cannot
follow on account of the lack of evidence
. The situation is so very different
from that of Sunday, when Senator John
Shine of Mariposa, Stanislaus and Tuo-
lumne believed it advisable to drive to
Chinese Camp with Jim Gillis," Truthful
James," as he is better known, to talk to
the mob and prevent the prospective
lynching.
There is a quarrel that has started among
some of the friends of the murdered man.
It seems that at the time of the arrest the
telephone wires of Calaveras and Tuolumne
counties were kept hot by somebody calling
up Goorge Morris' friends, telling them
of the cold- blooded murder and urging the
speedy lynching of the suspected. This
was an appeal of great significance, the deceased
standing not only as a very popular
man among the masses, but as a prominent
member of the Knights of Pythias and of
the Foresters, representing a force of 213
friends and brothers in the county. The
telephone agencies in the various townships
and stations on realizing that trouble
was brewing cut off the wires. Now this
attempt to gather a mob for lynching purposes
is known to everybody and no one
cares to shoulder it, preferring to let the
blame rest on another. The result is that
the Morris brothers at Chinese Camp, who
are the telephone agents, are being accused
of the whole matter. They deny it, and in
some way Private Detective Reilly and one
of the night clerks at the City Hotel in
Sonora have come together with mutual
accusations of guilt. No matter who tried
to incite the riot, it had a retrograding effect
and the men in jail have a much better
chance a fair trial by jury than they
have had for before.
