Just what will happen as the next curiosity of lynching
no one can foresee. The fad grows on what it
feeds upon. But one longs for Graham and his bread,
Thompson and his cayenne squirt gun, Miller and his
end of the world and the other good old fads of
grandfathers. our
The Skaneateles community in New York undertook
to live on philosophy and the beatitudes. Horace
Greeley hurried off to a Socialist community in Penn-
sylvania. The Shakers established themselves at New
Lebanon as followers of celibacy and" Mother Ann."
Jemima Wilkinson appeared at Penn Yan, N. Y.,
as a female incarnation of the Messiah and tried to
walk on the water of Crooked Lake. Joseph Smith
and" the witnesses" promulgated the Book of Mor-
mon. The Fox sisters began spiritual rapping and
made the world's hair rise with" the Rochester
knockings." All kinds of reforms, marvels, wonders
and curious things were afloat, and if the credulous
and superstitious did not see what they wanted, they
had only to ask for it. Then the Civil War came on
and in the potency of its passion and its intense and
mighty call to the people all things else were burned
as by fire and no sound was heard but that of the
great trumpet that called the sons of the republic
to exertion and fidelity unto death.
Since then another generation has arisen and another
is coming with manhood just thickening its
neck. The old disposition to take up a fad is still
upon man. But unfortunately the fad now seems to
be lynching. Men and women are lynched, and what
is supposed to be justice is administered, al frseco,
while the dust gathers on the Judge's desk and in
the jury box of the criminal courts, for their place
is usurped and their function assumed by the mob.
The savagery of the fad is progressive. At first the
victims were hanged. Then soon it was the rule to
riddle their dead and pendent bodies with bullets.
Then they were shot full of lead as they were strung
up. Next a mob of artists in lynching, having shot
and hanged a man, cut his body down and burned
it. The next step was a short one, and was taken,
we believe, in Texas, where the victim was caught,
condemned, pinioned and burned alive, tied to a stake.
Observers believed that this marked the high tide
of the fad and that the horror of it would have a
repellent effect and that the horror of it would have a
decline and disappear. But they were mistaken. The
horror of the stake became a fascination. It seemed
to fittingly express the spirit of revenge roused by the
vile nature of the crime which it expiated, and in several
instances it has been used to punish offenses of
less enormity.
This horrible fad is not confined to any section.
In all divisions of the States it is rampant. The South
has furnished the greatest number of cases, but they
do not differ in kind from those that have occurred
in Kansas, Colorado, Wyoming, Indiana, Illinois and
other States. In the dispatches of one day recently a
rope was being knotted for a negro woman, in South
Carolina, who beheaded her children and burned their
bodies, negroes being the intended avengers. A Mis-
souri Sheriff was standing off a mob that desired to
lynch a loafer for shooting an officer. A Delaware
mob was in hot pursuit of a negro to burn him for
shooting a constable. Minnesota lynchers were in
pursuit of a wretch guilty of an unspeakable crime,
and the same cause moved another party in Ohio.
But the oddest of all that day's doings appeared in
Georgia. A penitentiary Warden was the threatened
victim. Among his prisoners is a white woman, a
Miss Crist, known as" the Diamond Queen," born
of a good family, and believed to be insane. The
Warden's name is Alagood, and he ordered Miss
Crist, though a delicate woman, to work as a fieldhand
with the negro prisoners, incited thereto by his wife.
Now Mrs. Alagood's methods seem to belie her name,
since they were a la bad. When Miss Crist protested
against assignment to field work Mrs. Alagood ordered
her husband to have her whipped. Thereupon
the frail white woman was taken to the torture- room,
tied up and given forty lashes on the bare back by
the Warden. The thongs cut to the ribs and left
gashes in her breast. No male prisoner had ever received
more than ten lashes, but the Warden's wife
is thorough in what she undertakes. At once Georgia
was on fire and immediately it was proposed to lynch
the Warden. He made Adam's excuse that his wife
ordered it, and the Governor proceeded to investigate
. But the Alagoods don't show themselves in
public and the masks and rope are ready if the
Warden is caught. the
Thompson appeared with his new school of medicine
and squirted a stream of" No. Six" and lobelia
into his followers. Preissnitz promulgated his Graf-
fenberg water cure, and his followers were legion, believing
that a tub and wet bandage would enable men
to reach the age of Methusaleh with all the virtues of
Melchizedek. The Socialist theories of Fourier fitted
into the tendency of the time, and Charles A. Dana
and retired to whittle out a new world and a
new others heaven at Brook Farm.
HE American people, or a portion of them, are
T given to fads. Between 1836 and the outbreak
of the Civil War there was a procession of fads.
The Millerites gave away their property, made long
white nightshirts, put them on and took to the hills
and housetops to get a good start heavenward when
the end of the world came. Graham got dyspepsia
and lived on bran bread, and immediately Graham
bread was accepted by the faddjsts as a panacea for all
ills, and a dietetic reform began and went to such
extremes that eating anything threatened to be
fashionable. un-
LYNCHING FAD. Hd
