Bayonets of 3,000 Troops Hold Springfield Mobs at Bay
Scenes of the rioting in Springfield: 1- Public square and courthouse, where Chafin, prohibitionist candidate for president, was struck by brick while talking. 2- Governor Deneen of Illinois. 3- West side of Publie square; arrow points to Loper's restaurant
and cross marks position of stand where Chafin spoke. 4- State capitol. 5- St. Nicholas hotel, where negro who assaulted white woman and precipitated riot was employed. 6- Camp Lincoln, where the fugitive negroes first were quartered. 7- Franklin Life
building, near which rioting occurred. 8- East side of public square, scene of rioting. 9- Municipal lighting plant, where troops were massed.- Armory, where troops and negro refugees are quartered. 11- Odd Fellows' building, one block west of Loper's restaurant
, scene of riots, 10
Check of Martial Law
Race War Smolders Under Iron
Whites Flee in Panic to Countryside
Blacks Terrorized by Awful Vengeance of
DISPATCH TO THE CALL SPECIAL
SPRINGFIELD, Ill., Aug. 16.- Although today was not marked
by the scenes of violence which were witnessed in the rioting of
Friday night and last night, in which negroes were lynched and
negro homes destroyed, it was manifest on all sides that the blood
thirst of the people is not appeased. Only the presence of the 3,000
soldiers scattered in the strategic points throughout the city has
prevented a renewal of violence.
As it is, several negroes have been attacked by whites in the
outskirts of the city. One negro was stabbed by a gang of hoodlums
who caught him straying from the protection of the soldiers on the
state fair grounds. Mysterious fires have occurred in many parts of
the city.
The life of every negro in Springfield would be unsafe tonight
were it not for the presence of the soldiers. Seven regiments hold
the city in the iron grip of martial law. A regiment of cavalry will
arrive from Chicago in the morning. With the arrival the organized
and enforced military resources of the
state will practically be exhausted. But Edward streets last night, was taken
one regiment yet remains to be called, from his cell this morning and put
and as that is the eighth, a colored through a" third degree" examination.
regiment of Chicago, it will hardly be Raymer has been in Springfield only a
summoned here. So if the state troops few
months. He is a Russian Jew and
can not control the situation Governor talks broken English. After an hour's
Deneen will be compelled to apply for gruelling he broke down and admitted
federal troops
. that he was one of the mob that strung
PEOPLE OF LINCOLN'S CRADLE
DECREE BLACKS MUST GO
The white people of Springfield, the
home of Abraham Lincoln, who emancipated
the black race, have decided
that the negro can have no abiding
place in their city. The negro himself
realizes the import of the edict and he
is going.
A careful estimate places the number
of negroes who have left Springfield
since the beginning of the race war at
2,000. Of this number nearly three-
fourths have gone out of the county
on railroads and interurban lines. The
rest have gone by wagon and on foot
and are located in the rural districts.
STAY WITHIN STATE
The great mass of the scurrying
blacks are still within the state. Some
have gone to Missouri, Kentucky ,, In-
diana, and a few to the south. Some
are known to have gone as far past the
Mason and Dixon line as Louisiana.
There are still many negroes left in
Springfield, but of these there are many
who are planning to go at the first
opportunity.
In another week the negro quarters
of Springfield will be depopulated. The
only negroes seen on the streets today
were those skurrying in fear haunted
the railroad trains. Every
groops for
group of fleeing blacks was accompanied
by a squad of soldiers
It was a common sight to see. a half
dozen negroes, old men and women
with babies, being escorted down the
street to the railroad by a squad of
soldiers. In week the negro colonies
will be like a deserted villages.
In the levee districts especially the
results of this exodus can be noted.
There the few houses which were not
destroyed by the fire on Friday night
are empty and all their former occupants
and furniture have gone to other
cities.
Another victim of Friday night's violence
died early this morning at St.
John's hospital. Frank Delmore, a
miner in the employ of the Capital coal
company, was the second man to die of
wounds received at almost the beginning
of the riot. John Colwell, another
coal miner, was shot at the same time
and at the same corner. He lived only
a few hours.
MINERS OUTBREAK
FEAR'
Colwell is to be buried Tuesday. The
police fear that the thousands of coal
miners who will attend the funeral
may become riotous after their com-
rade has been laid in his grave. Extraordinary
precautions will be taken
by the militia to prevent any trouble.
There are between 7,000 and 8,000 coal
miners employed in the mines in and
around Springfield and
Colwell was
well known to most of them. If his
comrades should be incited to violence
the loss of life would be terrible.
Major General Young has no fear of
trouble, but he he is prepared for
it if it does come says.
Abraham Raymen, the man arrested
last night on suspicion of being one
of the mob lynched the aged negro
, William that Donigan, at Spring and
Edward streets last night, was taken
from his cell this morning and put
through a" third degree" examination.
Raymer has been in Springfield only a
few months. He is a Russian Jew and
talks broken English. After an hour's
gruelling he broke down and admitted
that he was one of the mob that strung
the old negro to tree after slashing
his throat with a razor. He also gave
the police the name of four or five of
the mob which he knew. Officers are
searching for them, but it is thought
they left the city.
NO PROVOCATION FOR ACT
From Raymer's story of the lynching
there was no provocation for the
wanton action, only that Donigan was
married to a white woman. Raymer denies
any part in the actual lynching.
but the police believe he was one of
those who placed the rope around the
old man's neck. At 3 o'clock Friday
morning Raymer was one of the foremost
of the crowd that lynched Scott
Burton, the negro barber at Twelfth
and Madison streets. He realizes that
he can be hanged for the part he took
in Friday night's work.
Governor Deneen tonight forced the
city authorities to take steps which he
expects will put an end to the rioting.
which has held sway in Springfield
since Friday night. He summoned
States Attorney Frank L. Hatch before
him and ordered that a special grand
Jury be convened tomorrow to indict
the half hundred rioters who now are
prisoners in the county jail. The investigation
will be as direct and forceful
as a military court martial. It is
expected that true bills will be voted
with regularity and precision. The governor
informed the city authorities that
the prosecutions must be real
and ensuing vigorous.
