woman murder of a. yesterday, for the
George Mitchell( colored) was hanged at Troy, O.,
MOB LAW AT THE SOUTH.
The lynching of negroes by Southern
mobs has become so ordinary an occurrence
as scarcely to excite remark, but the
phenomenon ne vertheless calls for the most
energetic protest, and indicates an abnormal
state of society. In the States where
it is most common, there is no pretense
that the machinery of justice is crippled
or corrupt. It has never been claimed
that summary and lawless modes of pun-
ent were had recourse to because the
conviction of criminals was uncertain. So
far as can be perceived negro criminals at
the South receive the full measure of their
offenses when they are brought before the
Courts. The only explanation of the passion
for lynching which has become so common
is, that the Courts do not punish all
offenses with death, while the lynchers
In other words these lynchings
do.
are at bottom neither more nor less
than systematic methods of terrcr-
izing the colored people by making
them believe that all their offenses
are to be regarded as capital. There have
been hundreds of foul murders committed
by white men in the South, but unless the
murderer happened to be a Republican no
thought of lynching has ever arisen because
them. When Colonel Tom Buford
of
assassinated Judge Elliott because the latter
had decided a civil suit against him,
the scoundrel was sympathized with and
pitied. Had he been a negro it cannot be
doubted that all the country would have
turned out to hang him summarily. In
Mississippi two other villainous white men
have just been acquitted on the charge of
murdering a man during the Chisholm
massacre. Nobody doubts their guilt,
but no white Mississippi jury can be got to
other
convict them white
or any
therefore perfectly
assassins
It is
.
clear that Southern lynchings have no
connection with regard for order and abhorrence
of crime. They are rather evidences
of the chronic defiance of law and
order which the Southern whites
themselves upon wherever their colored pride
fellow- citizens are concerned. They
lynching parties as they organize red-
shirt and rifle clubs just. It is all a part of the
well- understood general policy to keep
down the negroes, and lynching is specially
favored because it affords a pretext for
outrage under the cover of regard for society
. Every one of these lynchings is an
assassination and an indictment of the so-
,
ciety that approves of such lawless work.
The Southern people perhaps do not realize
it, but they are giving themselves a very
character by these continuous overrid-
bad ings of the law.
