see by Masked Men.
Probable Lynching of Negroes in Tennes-
Wholesale Lynching of Negroes.
NASHVILLE, September 15th.- A letter
from the adjoining county of Robertson says:
Seven negroes have been arrested as implicated
in the murder of one Lee Laprade.
One of the negroes was taken to Sadlersville
Sunday, and it is reported has confessed,
naming his accomplices.
A Springfield special to the American says:
At 12 o'clock Tuesday night a mob of 100
armed men came into town and began to
batter in the doors of the jail containing two
negroes charged with the murder of old man
Laprade. Four suspected negroes were in
the hands of the mob, and two others in jail;
also a negro named Joe Ramsey, who murdered
a Miss Holt.
The following are specials to the American
this morning:
GUTHRIE( Ky.), September 15th- 2: 30 A. M.
the
captured at Paducah a few days ago and brought
to Sadlersville for trial. He made a full confession
yesterday. There were seven more negroes implicated
in the murder. The trial nct being finished,
the parties were put under guard at Sadlersville last
night. This morning at 1 o'clock a masked party
of fifty men were seen half a mile from Sadiersville,
armed with shot guns and holding consultation.
Twenty men were seen passing here at 2 o'clock,
going towards Sadlersville. No doubt they will
lynch the seven negroes before morning.
SPRINGFIELD, August 15th- 3 A. M.
Arch Jamison and Jack Bell were taken by the
mob, and will be hanged. Ramsey was left dead
on the jail floor, riddled with bullets. The mob left
quietly. They broke open several blacksmith
shops and got tools, then broke down the doors of
the jail and went into the cells, took out the negroes
and ft town with them securely tied and riding in
front of the mob. Everything was done quietly.
Citizens went to the jail after the mob left, and found
Ramsey lying on the floor dead, perfectly riddled
with bullets. the They
went west on the Clarksville road. Some citizens
asked where the would find the prisoners. The
mob remarked that the buzzards would find them.
It is said that all the negroes will be hanged
together. The mob will now have time to take them
where Laprade was murdered before daylight.
ANOTHER ACCOUNT.
NASHVILLE, September 15th.- Late advices
from Springfield state that the crowds who
broke into the jail there this morning were
disguised with white handkerchiefs across
their faces, and entered the town along Cedar
Hill at 1 o'clock. They rode quietly to the
jail and dismounted. Failing to find the
Sheriff to obtain the keys, they broke in the
doors with sledge hammers. The first cell
reached was occupied by Ramsey, who two
months previous shot a young lady because
she refused to marry him. This prisoner retreated
behind the door and fought the mob
with the leg of a chair. He was shot in the
left leg, severing the femoral artery, and falling
, was dragged outside and one or two more
shots fired into his body, which killed him.
The crowd then secured Jack Bell and Archie
Jan ison( negroes), arrested a few days ago,
charged with the murder of L. S. Laprade, who
lived about 17 miles from Springfield. They
placed these prisoners upon horses, and with
them left town by the same road they entered
. They halted seven miles from Spring-
field and hanged the two negroes of dogwood
trees, about seventy- five yards apart." At 7
o'clock this morning a lady passing along the
road observed the corpses swinging, and at
once notified the neighbors. The intelligence
soon reached Springfield, and the Coroner,
accompanied by a number of citizens, proceeded
to the spot, eut down the bodies, held
an inquest and placed the corpses in a wagon
and drove back to town. The bodies were
then taken charge of by an undertaker. Five
others, accused of complicity in the Laprade
murder, are under guardat Sadlersville. One
of them, named Higgins, made a confession
implicating the others, and giving sickening
details of the torture of Laprade to make him
reveal where his money was kept. The excitement
at Sadlersville is very great, and the
lynching of the prisoners to- night is
hended. appre-
