DEMOCRATIC
IMPUDENCE.
The Democrats of Alabama are entitled
to take the prize for consummate impudence
. Their State Committee has issued
an address in which they say," Our party
" in Alabama stands committed by its
" platform, by the action of every depart-
" ment of the State Government, and by
the Judges of its Courts elected by it,
first, to an acceptance of the results of
" the war; second, to the equal political
" rights of every citizen; third, to the faith-
" ful maintenance of the public credit.
" State and national, and unflinching oppo-
" sition to the repudiation of any public
obligation; fourth, to a free and fair
66
" exercise of the elective franchise; fifth, to
" the strictest economy in the administra-
" tion of public affairs." We have italicized
the sentiments which make this
address remarkable, and they are certainly
almost audacious enough to take away the
breath of the sober- minded reader. In the
teeth of overwhelming evidence that the
Alabama Democracy have just perpetrated
the most gigantic frauds the suffrage
upon
ever recorded; in face of the notorious fact
that the late election in that State was
a monstrous mockery; this Democratic
Committee calmly rises to its feet and
the country that its party
assures is" committed" to" a free and
" fair exercise of the elective franchise."
The Alabama frauds have been exposed in
detail by the Republican Committee of
that State. The specific facts and figures
have been published, showing at which
precincts and to what extent these frauds
were practiced. United States Commissioners
have since visited the State, and
have gathered abundant evidence confirming
all the statements of the Republican
Committee. The manner in which the
Alabama Democrats received and treated
these federal officers shows how much the
former are disposed to respect the" equal
" political rights of every citizen." One
Commissioner was shot at five times with
a rifle, and another was told that he deserved
to be lynched, and an active effort
was made to carry the threat into execution
. What he deserved to be lynched
for was the high crime and misdemeanor
of having taken the affidavits of 607
voters that they had all put Republican
tickets in the ballot- box, and that they
had all been counted out. This was a
precinct at which there actually existed a
Republican majority of over five hundred,
but which the Democrats returned as
giving their ticket a majority of three
hundred. The same practices were followed
all through the State, and it was by
these means that the Democrats succeeded
in fabricating what they are pleased to call
their great majority. It is bad enough for
the Alabama Republicans thus to be
cheated out of their franchise, but it is an
intolerable outrage for them to be told
that the rascals who swindled them are
committed to" a free and fair exercise of
" the elective franchise." As to the relation
of the lawmakers to the matter, we
have already printed the testimony of an
Alabama Democratic journal to the effect
that the election laws were purposely framed
to facilitate fraud, and that the Courts had
made all their decisions bearing on these
laws with the same end in view. The
Alabama Democrats must think the people
of the North are fools, or they never would
have ventured upon this shameless
of effrontery. piece
