LATEST NEWS IN PARAGRAPHS.
Forty- six persons lost their lives during
the recent earthquake in Portugal.
A negro was lynched in a suburb of
Birmingham, Ala., for criminal assault.
Fire caused by lightning destroyed a
residence near Woodville, Miss. Loss,
$ 65,000.
One lady was killed and three others
injured in an automobile accident Monday
at Pensacola, Florida.
A negro woman school teacher at Port
Gibson, Miss., saturated her clothing with
oil and cremated herself.
The murder of an eleven- year- old boy
by an Italian at Wymore, Neb., caused a
mob to drive all Italians out.
After all the men, women and children
of the Armenian villiage of Kessab had
been slain the town was burned.
Sixteen persons were injured, one perhaps
fatally, in a tornado Monday which
destroyed a large part of Centrahoma, Okla.
One man was killed and and several
others were injured in a cyclone which
struck Texarkana, Ark., at 3:30 Monday
afternoon.
A motion for a new trial for D. B. and
Robin Cooper, convicted of the murder of
Senator E. W. Carmack, was overruled at
Nashville.
Nine persons were killed by the collapse
of the roof of the cathedral in Torbes,
Spain, while mass was being said. Thirty
na
others were injured.
The 120th anniversary of the inauguration
of George Washington as the first
President of the United States will be celebrated
at Alexandria, Va., to- morrow.
In
The largest fine ever recovered in the
34
history of the State of Texas was collected
a few days ago when the Waters Pierce
Oil Company paid its fine of$ 1,808,000.
That the smuggling syndicate now under
investigation has defrauded the Government
of possibly$ 30,000,000 in the past
ten years is well established by the records
at hand.
From two to three inches of snow fell
Wednesday of last week over the area west
from Atkins, Nebraska, to Deadwood, S.
D., and north from Spencer, Nebraska,
into the Rosebud Reservation country.
Jackson and White Counties, Indiana,
voted dry in local option elections Monday.
This score makes forty- four counties that
have voted dry out of a total of forty-
seven local option elections held under the
county law.
Tuesday night and early Wednesday
morning of last week a heavy wind and
rain storm swept over North Texas. Five
residences were blown down at Frisco,
windows were smashed in Dallas and several
other towns reported that buildings
wrecked.
were
FROM OVER OUR GREAT STATE.
Three youths in New Orleans confessed
to highway robbery.
Fire on Tchoupitoulas Street, New Or-
leans, Tuesday, caused a loss of$ 35,000.
An attempt was made to destroy the St.
Louis Cathedral in New Orleans with a of
dynamite bomb.
A wind and rain storm in the vicinity of
St. Joseph, Tensas Parish, Monday,
caused minor property damage.
Burglars at Wilson robbed and burned
the store of the Wilson Mercantile Company
. The loss is above$ 25,000.
George Elliott, a young man about thirty
years of age, was struck by lightning and
instantly killed Monday near Crowville,
Richland Parish.
Nine hundred head of cattle, purchased
in the Mer Rouge section of Morehouse
Parish, were recently shipped to a cattle
ranch in Oklahoma. A special train of
seventeen cars were used. The cattle have
been no expense to the farmers in raising,
as there is grass and cane the year around
in that section.
Shreveport Times: Last year at this
time Red River was almost level with its
banks, remaining at that stage for fully
thirty days, after which the great floods
came down and devasted the entire country.
Old river men assert that the present stage
of the stream, at this season, practically
assures there will be no flood this year.
THE STATE PRESS.
Monroe Star: If Louisiana juries want
to enforce the law against murderers they
will have to designate the rope instead of
imposing the life sentence. Even then it
will be a hard thing to do with the pardoning
board working overtime to save the
criminals.
Leesville Leader: The people of Ver-
non have endured enough. The cry of
murder is heard every month of the year.
The shooting of the officers of the law is not
uncommon, and if those responsible for
existing conditions fail to make a change
for the better, the people may be forced to
take a hand, and if so, there is danger
that they may go to extremes also, as is
usually the case when the people take the
reins in their own hands after patience has
been exhausted.
Ben Franklin was the oldest signer
the Declaration of Independence. of
