OUR HERITAGE: Ida B. Wells and
the Crusade Against Lynching
By DR. LEROY VAUGHN
Sentinel Contributing WriterDR
PART ONE ONE
Lynching is defined as mob execution, usually
by hanging, without the benefit of trial and often
accompanied with torture and body mutilation. The
usual scenario included a mob of up to 5,000 white
men attacking a single, defenseless black man and
executing him for a crime he was never convicted of
or even charged with in most cases. Lynching is
considered one of the most horrific chapters in
African American history and can only compared to
slavery in cruelty and savagery toward another
human being.
Ironically, the term "lynch" is derived from the
name of Charles Lynch, a Virginia planter and
patriot during the American Revolution, who di-
rected violence toward white British loyalists. After
the Civil War and emancipation, lynching became
almost synonymous with hanging and torturing Af-
rican American males. Between 1882 and 1930
more than 3,300 black male victims were hanged.
burned alive, castrated and mutilated by mostly
Southern white mobs who have never faced any
charges for these criminal acts. Coroners and law
officials typically attributed the murders to “partics
unknown." Most historians and sociologists agree
that mob execution was really about social control
and to maintain the status quo of white superiority
and had little to do with crime control.
Ida B. Wells (1862-1931) could easily be called
the mother of the anti-lynching movement. She was
the first of eight children born to slave parents in
Holly Springs, Miss. After emancipation, she at-
tended several schools run by Northern Methodist
missionaries including Rust College. In 1879, after
the yellow fever epidemic claimed the lives of both
her parents, she moved to Memphis, Tenn.. with the
younger children and accepted a teaching position.
Because of her great concern for racial injustice,
Wells was invited to write for a local church paper.
As her fame increased, she was asked to contribute
to several Baptist newspapers. She eventually be-
came editor and partner of the Free Speech and
Headlight Baptist newspaper.
In 1892, the brutal lynching of three close friends
in Memphis started Wells on a militant, uncompro-
mising, single-minded crusade against lynching from
which she would never retreat. Her three friends
committed the crime of opening a grocery store,
which successfully competed with a white grocer
directly across the street. For the crime of becoming
too "uppity," a large white mob took the three
proprietors from their grocery store, tortured and
killed them. Wells wrote angry editorials in her
newspaper encouraging blacks to leave Memphis if
possible and to boycott white businesses, which left
several white companies, including the newly opened
streetcar line, on the verge of bankruptcy.
Wells decided to launch her anti-lynching move-
ment on several fronts. She first wanted to explode
the myth that lynching was primarily to protect white
women from rape by black men. She published de-
tailed statistics on lynching which demonstrated that
less than one-fifth of the victims of lynch mobs were
even accused of rape by their killers. She said that
racist southern white mobs "cry rape" to brand their
victims as "moral monsters" and to place them "be-
yond the pale of human sympathy."
She wrote that while Southern white men raped
black women and children with impunity, they con-
sidered any liaison between a black man and a white
woman as involuntary by definition. She pointed out
that children produced by white-black relationships
were called "mulatto” from the Spanish word for
mule because racist whites believed that mixed-race
children, like the offspring of donkeys and horses,
were an inferior breed that could not reproduce.
When Wells suggested in print that white women
were often willing participants with black men, a
large white mob destroyed the presses of her news-
paper and would have killed her had she not been
visiting friends in New York. Thomas Fortune in-
vited her to stay in New York and write for the New
York Age. She was also allowed to exchange the
circulation list of the Free Speech for a onc fourth
interest in the “Age" and immediately began to
write a series on lynching.
