OP-ED- ED
Past And Present, Lynchings And Present, Lynchings
Continue In The U.S. In The U.S.
By Norman J. Clement Norman J. Clement
T
The year was 1893, the 9th day of October, the place Ninety
Six, South Carolina, from the New York Herald Tribune the
article read: "S.C. Lynchers Slay Negro; One Tells Of Police
Help, a coroner's jury ordered four men held late today on a charge
of murdering Bennie Thompson, youthful Negro who was taken
from the jail hero lo
jan here last night and beaten to death."
The action was taken by the jury after Burley Leppard had read a
statement admitting that he and three white men had taken the youth
from his cell and whipped him with "automobile top tubes." The
men implicated by Leppard were J.F. Morris, “Lesty” Mayes and
"Toody" Webb. Leppard, a textile worker, and Mayes were in jail
tonight, but officers were still searching for the other two.
"We and the others had some trouble with the Negro at a cafe
last night and he drew a pistol on us.' Leppard's statement said. “The
Negro was arrested and put in jail. Later the four of us went to the
jail and asked the jailer to turn the Negro over to us. He refused, tell-
ing us we would have to see that chief.
""Chief of Police Rush came in a few minutes later, and we made
the same request of him. He told us to wait until dark and come back
and we would find the jail unlocked. We went back to the jail as a
short time later and we found the door open and the lock hanging in
the cell door... We took the Negro out and drove him down the
road in my car. All of us beat him with automobile top tubes and left
him beside the road still alive.'
"Leppard said this was at 7:30 last night. Just after 8 o'clock this
morning, the Negro body, bearing many welts was found in plain
view of the highway by a small Negro boy.
"Solicitor H.S. Blackwell, who attended the inquest said he
would ask that Chief of Police be indicted as an accessory to the kill-
ing. Chief Rush made a statement tonight denying the workers'
charge that he had aided them in taking the Negro from the cell: "I
been a officer a long time and I will never be guilty of such
dirty tricks as that," he said.
The year 1991, the 25th day of Marçlı, the place Los Angeles, Ca-
lif., from Newsweek magazine, the article read: "Brutality on the
Beat,... four defendants were photographed and finger-printed and
brought before a L.A. superior judge. The principle charge in the
grand jury indicted was assault with a deadly weapon ... After bail
hearing and a hearing date were set Stacey Koon, Ted Briseno, Lau-
rence Powell, and Timothy Wind were free to go."
Apparently the four who were LA police officers had some trou-
ble with the Negro who was speeding in his car down the highway.
The young Negro, Rodney King, was stopped and arrested shortly
after dark on March 3. He was shot with a stun gun by one officer,
then viciously clubbed, stomped and kicked more than 50 times by
three others. The Negro's skull was broken in nine places. Just after
8 o'clock several mornings later the Negro's body, bearing many
welts, was seen for the first time on television by other small Negro
boys..
The Chief of Police Daryl Gates defended his record by telling re-
porter that he had “lots of friends in the Black community.'
» When
the police department came under fire for the choke-hold deaths of
Blacks several years ago, he even blamed the victims for not having
veins in their necks "like normal people.'
Mayor Tom Bradley, himself a Negro, who has no power to re-
move the police chief, is said to be working behind the scenes to
oust him. Chief Gates, who has been a cop 42 of his 64 years, made
a statement: "I'm not going anywhere."
Norman J. Clement is a syndicated health columnist.
