Kosovo puts U.S. hypocrisy on center stage puts U.S. hypocrisy on center stage
The showering of sympathy and supplies
on those Kosovo refugees sent into Amer-
ica resurrects sentiments expressed nearly
150 years ago by the legendary Frederick
Douglass.
Douglass assailed America for inviting
"to your shores fugitives of oppression from
abroad, greet them with ovations, and pour
out your money to them like water" while
actively perpetuating oppression against
Blacks.
Frederick Douglass castigated the quick
concern American's show for the sufferings
of white Europeans compared to the delib-
erate indifference displayed to comparable
sufferings of their colored countrymen.
Americans applaud providing relief to
Kosovo refugees fleeing the dangers of the
brutal Serbian military onslaught yet they
ignore the requests of Blacks for relief from
the ravages of police brutality.
American leaders roll out the red carpet
for Kosovo refugees at a time when they
arrogantly refuse to roll back historic barri-
ers blocking Blacks like redlining of home
mortgages, insurance coverage, and busi-
ness loans.
Frederick Douglass saw America's soci-
etal schizophrenia on suffering - different
reactions based solely on the race of the suf-
ferer as "flagrantly inconsistent" with this
nation's professed democratic and humani-
tarian principles.
WASHINGTON JR.
"You are all on fire at the mention of lib-
erty for France or for Ireland, but are as
cold as an iceberg at the thought of liberty
for the enslaved of America," Douglass
noted.
1
American leaders claim that no money
exists to fund housing for our homeless
children, yet they quickly find money to
fund housing for Kosovars at Fort Dix and
their resettlement into communities across
the country.
"Whether we burn to the declarations of
the past or to the professions of the present,
the conduct of the nation seems equally
hideous and revolting," Douglass said in his
famous speech delivered on July 4, 1852, in
Rochester, NY.
The duplicity of America's skin colored
conscious greatly disturbed Frederick Dou-
glass.
"You commanded all men, everywhere,
to love one another; yet you notoriously
hate (and glory in your hatred) all men
whose skins are not colored like your own,”
Douglass proclaimed.
During the many decades since Douglass
delivered that brutally frank speech clearly
much has changed.
Legalized slavery no longer exists in the
United States unlike that day when Dou-
glass called it "the great sin and shame of
America!"
However, the legacies of slavery infect
every sinew of American society today.
The schizophrenia on suffering that Fred-
erick Douglass decried in 1862 is evident
today.
The lead editorial in last Tuesday's
Philadelphia Tribune detailed this
schizophrenia in America's differing
responses to the suffering in Kosovo com-
pared to the equally deplorable suffering of
Haitian refugees and ethnic cleansing vic-
tims in Central Africa.
The editorial noted how "Haitian
refugees fleeing death and violence on their
island nation were housed in tents behind
wire fences on the U.S. military base" in
Cuba.
The editorial also noted that America did
not "send, Stealth bombers and cruise mis-
siles to halt the bloodshed" in Central
Africa, nor did it "send cargo planes to air-
lift out victims."
This different response to the respective
needs of suffering citizens in Central
Africa, Haiti, and Kosovo, that editorial
stated "prominently displayed" American
racism.
The real tragedy of this schizophrenia,
the editorial pointed out, was not the
racism, but the fact that the Clinton admin-
istration and the general population “failed
to see it."
The refusal of Americans to acknowl-
edge their own racist practices is an act of
rank hypocrisy Frederick Douglass decried
in his speech..
Douglass criticized Americans for criti-
cizing the "crowned-headed tyrants" of
European countries while consenting "to be
mere tools and bodyguards" of the racist
tyrants at home.
Americans react with outrage to the his-
tory of atrocities in the Balkans, but remain
silent on the history of atrocities against
Blacks.
For example, Blacks have suffered atroc-
ities around Memorial Day when America
celebrates the preservation of liberty
secured by the sacrifices of soldiers.
A mob lynched David Shaw on May 31,
1892, in Gray Court, S.C.
A mob broke into the Chickasha, Okla.,
jail on May 31, 1930, and shot Henry Argo
in the head while he laid on a cot, charged
with rape, a frequent false accusation
against Black men.
The first air raid on an African-American
community occurred on May 31, 1921, dur-
ing the midst of a race riot in Tulsa, Okla.,
when white bigots in a biplane dropped
dynamite on the all-Black Greenwood sec-
tion of North Tulsa.
That bloody two-day Tulsa riot com-
pletely decimated the Greenwood section,
including the prosperous financial district
then referred to as "The Negro Wall Street"
of America.
An armed effort by Blacks to protect a
Black rape suspect from a white lynch mob
sparked this riot. The alleged rape victim
later said she suffered no sexual assault.
Typical of the racism in Tulsa at the time,
grand jury convened to investigate the riot
found "no mob spirit" by whites that day.
No members of that Tulsa mob faced
criminal prosecution for their murderous
brutality during the riot, similar to the pre-
sent day when white police in America and
Serbian police in Kosovo literally murder
with impunity.
Time and time again, America smacks
Blacks with racist behavior and says it is
not so.
The Kosovo refugee situation is just the
latest race-based insult and given American
tradition... it will not be the last.
Linn Washington Jr. is an award-win-
ning writer who teaches journalism at
Temple University.
(The views expressed in this column are
the writer's and do not necessarily reflect
the views of the Philadelphia Tribune.)
