From The Grass Roots The Grass Roots
Capital Punishment: Legal Lynching Punishment: Legal Lynching
By Manning Marable Manning Marable
One of the South's oldest and most
popular methods for dealing with the
"Negro Problem" was lynching.
Over 3,500 Black men and women
were hung, burned at the stake, and
sexually mutilated between 1882 and
1927. With the Great Depression,
however, the racist brutalities large-
ly left the streets and colton planta-
tions, moving into the very heart of
America's penal system. Capital
punishment, in actual practice,
became the central and decisive
means to threaten Black people
"legally."
The racial bias within the
statistics on capital punishment
speaks for itself. Although Blacks
comprised about nine percent of the
U.S. population in the 1930s, almost
50 percent of all prisoners who were
executed during the decade were
Afro-Americans. 97.1 percent of all
whites executed had been convicted
for murder. Only 10 white men were
executed for rape during the entire
ten year period. 115 Black men were
sentenced to die for rape in the 1930s,
14.1 percent of all Blacks executed.
After 1940, the number of Blacks
convicted and eventually killed for
capital crimes increased significant-
ly reelative to whites. Between 1940
and 1959 the percentage of Blacks
executed for rape compared to the
total number of Blacks killed steadi-
ly climbed, reaching nearly one
fourth of the total. About 90 percent
of all Americans executed for rape
between 1930 and 1959 were Black,
and all but two of the sentences oc-
curred in the South. Georgia, on the
the leading lynching states, has also
executed the highest number of
prisoners since 1930, 366 persons.
The most important statistics to con-
sider may be this: no white has ever
been executed for the rape of a black
in American history.
Advocates of capital punishment
found themselves on the defensive in
the 1960s. Research revealed that
between 1928 and 1949, the average
homicide rates in states that allowed
the deapth penalty were 200 to 300
percent higher than in states that
had no capital punishment.
Homicide rates in the early 1960s,
when executions averaged 24 each
year, were only 70 percent of the
1930s rate, when executions averag-
ed 150 per year. Some states that
swtiched to the death penalty actual-
ly experienced increases in their
homicide rates. Confronted with
mounting cvidence that the death
penalty was inherently racist and an
ineffective deterrent against crime,
white social scientists, police ad-
ministrations and politicians laun-
ched an ideological "counter-
offensive." The nation's leading
crime stopper, F.B.I. director J.
Edgar Hoover, spoke out repeatedly
in favor of capital punishment.
University Chicago economist Isaac
Ehrlich published a widely praised
study which claimed that "every ex-
ecution deterred approximately
eight murders. Politicians in both
the Democratic and Republican par-
ties informed a budget conscious
public that executions would save
taxpayers money
over in-
caracerating prisoners for life
terms. Convicted murders were, as
a group, dangerously antisocial in-
dividuals who would undoubtedly
kill innocent people again
released. Evangilical white
ministers even quoted Exodus 21:
23-25 to justify capital punishment:
You shall give "life for life, eye for
eyem tooth for tooth, hand for hand,
foot for foot, burn for burn, wound
for wound, stripe for strips."
once
The solid evidence against all
these pro-death viewpoints is simple
enough. In the mid 1970s a group of
influential econometricians examin-
ed Ehrlich's research and declared
that it was "fatally flawed with
numerous methodolical errors."
Neither Hoover nor any social scien-
tist has ever proven a direct rela-
tionship between capital punishment
and crime deterrence. The public
was told repepeatedly that capital
punishment is more costly to the
state than life imprisonment. In
1971, for example, it was estimated
that the commutation of death
sentences of 15 Arkansas prisoners
saved the state an estimated $1.5
million. The former assistant
warden of Illinoi's Cook County Jail
noted that "on the average, a
capital case, from the time of first
commitment to the jail until the
body is disposed of after an execu-
tion, costs about 25 percent more
than the price of 30 years of im-
prisonment, which, on the average,
was the normal life expectancy at
the age of conviction of capital
cases. Capital punishment is by no
means 'cheaper than life im-
prisonemtn, and the jurisdiction that
maintains it pays dearly in both
money and humman costs." Black
and progressive white clergy
observed correctly that the Bible
also sanctions capital punishment
"in cases of adultery (Lev. 20:10),
blasphemy (Lev. 24:15), working on
the sabbath (Ex. 35:2), refusing to
obey a priest or judge (Deut. 17:12),
disobedient children (Deut. 21:18),
fornication (Deut. 22:23) and sixteen
other offenses. Death penalty ad-
vocates who prided themselves on
their Christianity conveniently
forgot that Christ told his follwers,
"You have heard it said, 'An eye for
an eye, and a tooth for a tooth,' but I
say unto you, Do not resist on who is
evil." (Matthew 5:38-39) The apostle
Paul wrote in the New Testament,
"Beloved, never avenge you ives.
but leave it to the wrath of God; for
it is written, 'Vengeance is mine, I
will repay, says the Lord.
(Romans 12:19)
a
White America continued to be un-
convinced: the passions of the mob
drowned out the exortations
Christ. By 1978, almost 70 percent of
all white Americans favored capital
punishment. After ending the death
penalty in 1967, the Supreme Court
reversed itself a decade later. By
June, 1981, 827 men and women were
on death row, the largest number in
U.S. history and probably the
largest in the world. Since 1972, 62
percent of the prisoners sentenced to
die "were unskilled, service, or
domestic workers; 60 percent were
unemployed at the time of their
crimes." Capital punishment has
again become a pivotal element in
maintaining white supremacy. Ac-
cording to the Institute of Southern
Studies, in Georgia, between 1973
and 1977, over three times as many
convicted defendants who had killed
white victims received a death
senter as did those who had killed
black victims. Three fourths of the
prisoners condemned were in the
South, and almost half were black.
Blacks in the U.S. account for over
half (54 percent) of all murder vic-
tims, and homicide is now the
leading cause of death for black peo-
ple between the age of 25 to 34. Only
13 percent of all prisoners now on
death row had black victims. Legal
activst Clare Jupiter has clearly
linked racism, lynchings and the
current use of capital punishment:
"lynch mobs were ostensibly il-
legal, but the actions of juries are
legally recognized as the will of the
community. By their deliberations
and selection of the proper victims
for official murder, modern juries —
especially Southern juries
familiar message: white skin and
wealth are still the best tools for
beating the death penalty."
echo a
