CS
U. S. Mobs Lynch 4,182 in 39
Years; 3,146 of Them Negroes; 85
Women; Georgia Tops List With 258
Many of Victims In- with hot irons, slashed with knives ishing point."
and slowly roasted to death. Even The
children have sometimes been the wit-
nesses of these horrors. In some cases
officers sworn to uphold. the law have
themselves taken part in lynchings.
Hundreds of prisoners have been
turned over to mobs without an effort
for their protection."
nocent Records Dis-
close.
1,036 WHITES
ON THE DECREASE.
The commission believes that lynch-
ings are on the decrease. It says:
ARE LYNCHED
sitt sorter
an
1924
ATLANTA, July 19.-"Black Spots
on the Map" is the title of an inter-
esting study of lynching just pub-
lished by the Commission on Inter-
racial Co-operation with headquarters lynching habit is being steadily re-
in Atlanta, Ga. In the 39 years, end-duced both as to number of victims
ing with 1923, American mobs took
the lives of 4,182 persons. Of the vic-
tims 1,036 were white and 3,146 were
Negro.
"Bad as the record is, however,
there are hopeful indications. The
Eighty-five of the number were
women, 17 of them white and 68
Negro. Hundreds more, not included in
the 4,182, were killed during the period
in race riots, most of them innocent
of an offense, as in Tulsa, East St.
Louis, Ill., Washington and Chicago.
Every state in the Union except
four, has had one or more lynchings
in the 39 years, the exceptions being
Massachusetts, New Hampshire,
Rhode Island and Vermont.
The study shows that many of the
victims were guilty of nothing, hav-
ing been put to death as the result of
mistaken identity, unfounded sus-
picion, of wild mob madness. Many
were lynched for the most trivial of-
fenses-"stealing hogs," "creating dis
turbance," "quarrel with employer,"
"failing to turn out of road," "not
knowing his place," "assisting man to
escape" and "striking man in alterca-
tion."
Homicides are said to have been the
occasion of less than half the lynch-
ings, about two-fifths to be exact.
commission concludes by say-
ing: "But whatever the law, public
sentiment at last controls. Lynching
will cease when the people who make
public sentiment cease to condone it,
either actively or by silence. The pul-
pits alone can speedily accomplish such
a change of sentiment whenever they
set themselves unitedly to the task.
Meantime, every lynching that occurs
discredits Christianity in the eyes of
the world. The school teachers might
do much by training the coming gener-
ation in respect for law and for human
life.
"Every good citizen, has a sacred
obligation to do his utmost publicly
and privately to uphold the law when-
ever it is threatened by the mob and
to help create such a sentiment as will
tolerate mob violence under no cir-
cumstances."
and area. Twenty-eight victims, the
number lynched in 1923, are of course
28 too many, and constitute a record
of lawlessness and barbarism that
shames America unspeakably in the
eyes of the world. Yet there is hope
for the fact that the 1923 record was
the lowest in 40 years and was only
about one-fourth as high as the an-
nual average for that period. The
next lowest record was 38 in 1917 and
the highest was 255 in 1892.
erage for the period was 109.
The av-
"The area affected is being steadily
reduced also. Thirty-three states had
lynchings in 1892; only nine in 1923.
These were Arkansas, Florida, Georgia,
Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Okla-
homa, Texas and Virginia. Another
hopeful indication is the fact that, in
1923, 46 attempted, or threatened,
lynchings were prevented by the
vigilance of officers, 40 of these cases
being in the South. All honor to the
growing number of officers who put
their oath of office above passion or
fear of public sentiment."
Actual or attempted criminal as-
sault-the "usual crime" that many
people think of as the sole cause of
lynchings-was alleged in less than
one-fourth of the cases. Sometimes
the mere suspicion of such a purpose
has been enough to put the mob in
action.
In one series of lynchings in 1918,
the interracial commission says at
least six persons, possibly more, were
put to death for murder with which
only one of them, so far as could be
learned, had any connection whatever.
One of the number was a widow whose
husband had just been lynched. Her.
only offense was the fact that she
said she would not report her hus-
band's murderers if she knew who
they were.
A map compiled by the commission
giving the number of lynchings in the
United States from 1900 to 1922, in-
clusive, shows that during that period
Georgia led with 258 lynchings, Missis-
sippi next with 239, followed by Texas
and Louisiana with 176 and 162, re-
spectively.
The commission 'believes lynching
can be eradicated, expressing itself on
the subject as follows: "That the
habit can be practically eradicated is
shown by the experience of certain
states that have made special efforts
to this end. Alabama, North Carolina,
Kentucky and Tennessee are notable
illustrations. Alabama, with a yearly
average of eight lynchings for the last
40 years, had but two in 1922 and
none in 1923. Tennessee, with an
average of six, had but two in 1922,
none last year and only five in the last
five years. South Carolina, with an
average of four, had but one in 1922
and none in 1923. North Carolina and
Kentucky have had none in two years.
PUBLIC SENTIMENT CONTROLS.
"In several states special legislation
has been enacted and found very help-
ful in curbing lynching. Among the
most effective measures are provision
for the removal of officers who sur-
"Many of the victims were tortured, render prisoners to mobs, as in Ala-
mutilated, burned at stake with a fe- bama, Kentucky and South Carolina
rocity unbelievable among civilized and a state constabulary under the
peuple, says the interracial commis- control of the governor, as in Alabama
sion. "The woman mentioned above, and Tennessee. South Carolina has a
for example, was hung to a limb by further law making counties in which
her feet, her body was riddled with lynchings occur responsible for dam-
bullets and was then ripped open with ages to the family of the victim.
kurve. Not incuently vast multi-Measures like these, consistently ap
tudes of men and women have gath-plied, should make it possible for any
ered to see huma ietmas tortured state to reduce lynchings to the van-
AS.
