Land Of Violence Violence Of
There is no need pretending that America is
just now turning to violent spasms. History does not
support this emotional assessment. America has al-
ways been a land of violence. We love it. We love to
fight and kill. The frontier days made the gun manly.
For years, lynching of Negroes was looked upon as a
traditional Southern ritual that even the North was
inclined to respect and imitate.
Thousand or more Negroes met their deaths by
lynch mobs whose actions did not so much as cause
a ripple of public indignation. What's more, for dec-
ades, Congress had refused to legislate against
lynching. It took refuge into the reasoning that such
legislation would be an invasion of the police power
of the state. It was not until the passage of the 1957
Civil Rights Act was this legalism knocked down.
In the last four years, in the state of Missis-
sippi alone, 46 Negroes have been killed without a
single conviction of the perpetrators of the crimes.
It is only just now that American conscience is
awakening to the embarrassing moral lapse. Ghetto
riots causing destruction of high-income, slum prop-
erty of absentee white landlords, and the assassina-
tion of prominent citizens are bringing to the fore
once more the violence that has been in American
blood since the birth of this nation.
Despite the fact that both Dr. Martin Luther
King and Senator Robert Francis Kennedy used all
the rhetoric at their command to arouse the national
conscience against violence, they met death by vio-
lence.
The quiet, patient search for solutions to un-
yielding problems is not the American way. Despite
the findings and cautious recommendations by vari-
ous commissions on urban riots, the cities are exhort-
ing their policemen to shoot to kill the poor people
who have the courage to rebel against their wretched
conditions. And if the inhabitants of Resurrection
City encamp too long, Congressional impatience may
cause them to be shot out of Washington.
A nation born in revolutionary turmoil and bap-
tized in Civil War is finding it difficult to live by the
codes of human decency. But, it must soon or late,
drown in its own blood of excessive violence.
