ENSINAMAN
Ruby!! Ruby
Good or Bad? Bad? or
• The case of Mrs. Ruby McCollum of Live Oak, Fla., sen-
tenced to death for the 1952 slaying of her alleged white
lover, Dr. C. LeRay Adams, has created an explosive con-
troversy among Courier readers There readers have ex-
pressed their opinions of the case in latters to Courier editors.
The Courier will continue to print these letters as long as they
are sent in. Latest letters to reach the Courier editorial room
follow:
I am unable to keep my mouth shut after reading Mrs.
Mitchell's line, "God is not man." han is not God either and this
one does not try to be. Any black woman that cohabits with a
white man in Florida gets no sympathy from me. I have no objec-
tion to interracial marriage but Florida does not allow it and
Ruby knew it. She had money, good home, and a husband. She
did not need to sell her body and soul to a man who would join
a lynch mob to lynch her own son. Ruby and all prideless Ne-
gro women like her, and there are many drawbacks to
mouths. Don't think that every Negro that looks inte mirror
is very happy about being mixed up. I for one geter, be
cause I know and was told by my dad what they did to his
mother back in the old days down South.
"PROUD NEGRO WOMANHOOD”
Larchmont, N. Y.
I am praying for Ruby. She has done no worse than some
of these old retired, reformed hens that's talking about her.
Most women of the colored race are heads of courts of lodges,
chapters, and big leaders of church work. Let's pray that sin
will not be encouraged in high places for as a man thinks in his
heart, so he is. Search the scriptures fór in them ye have
eternal life.
:
DE
.
MRS. DIXIE LEE JAMES,
Lubbock, Tex.
☆
I think Ruby is a disgrace to our race simply because our
The
highest and most respectable people must bear the brunt.
lowest white man thinks he can get any Negro woman he de-
sires. Ninety-five per cent of white men look upon Negro wo-
men as immoral, without virtue, dignity, or principle. We know
this is not true but as long as there are women like Ruby and
many other Negro women with no pride or race virtue, all of
our women will have to bear the brunt. That's why white men
refuse to marry Negro women as long as they can skip around
dark alleys, pick them up on corners, meet them in slums, and
use them as freaks. What do we expect? Where is the Negro
woman's soul? And after they do these nasty tricks then they
think some poor hardworking colored man should treat them as
angels. I love my women, I want them respected by all men.
Why should they slip around with any man? They should de
mand the same respect from white men that the white men gives
the white women. Why not come out in the open with him? Is
it because he is ashamed of you? I'm for interracial marriage,
for race mixing, but on the basis of respect, pride and equality
in pride for each individual toward another.
EARL HOOKS,
Cleveland, Ohio
Let us all pray for Ruby's poor soul and the sakes of those
children. Let's not condemn this woman. We don't know what
happened in this creature's life yes, she had money and
lots of it, but she really forgot her money and pride. God for-
gives and we will have to. It was Dr. Adams' fault, also. He
should have stayed in his place. We colored people should look
back at what our forefathers went through and then decide
whether or not we are loved so much by those white people.
Prejudice is still in their blood and always will be.
MRS. ELIZABETH THOMAS
Pittsburgh, Pa..
Some seem to think that Ruby did not break the Seventh
Commandment. Let us do all we can for Ruby, but one of the
great dangers of this age is the increasing tendency to rational-
ize away sin. Ends do not justify means. Remember: "There
is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are
the ways of death."-Prov. 16:25.
EUGENE WILLIAMS,
A Theological Student,
Huntsville, Ala
