Goodwill By A Trooper By A Trooper
In recent months, since the Mallard lynch-investigation
and including the handling of the lynch details of Calob Hill,
Negroes of the state have not in the least, been favorably
impressed with the work and earnestness of the Georgia
Bureau of Investigation. They have, and properly so, a deep
contempt for the treatment accorded. to the Mallard widow
during the dark days between November 20, when her hus,
band was slain, until she fled to safety to nearby Savannah.
They have remembered how the grief-stricken widow and
her children were harassed, even at the funeral and how she
was arrested during that period. And they will never forget
how for 14 days, not a single arrest of even a suspect took
place, and how enforcement officials waited for Mrs. Mallard
to swear out warrants for arrests.
We repeat, the entire episode was a demonstration of
a weak or indifferent group of investigators, who made no
serious efforts tourun down the lynchers, but left no stones
unturned to follow every move which Mrs. Mallard made, to
the point that she remained hidden in a cold rain for nearly.
9 hours, in fear of her own life, so goes the record.
But we are glad that a silver lining can be seen in that
dark cloud before the eyes of Georgia Negroes. The name
of C. W. Searcy, 39 year-old State Trooper, of 881 Hall
Street, Atlanta, will be favorably remembered for his splend
id contribution to the cause of goodwill and mutual under-
standing.
Mr. Searcy, according to news accounts, endangered his
own life in the performance of his sworn duty, by racing a
distance of 35 miles in 21 minutes in order to deliver rabies
vaccine to save the life of a nine year-old girl, little Bennie
Mae Stone, bitten by a rabies-infected dog. The girl, it was
learned here Wednesday night late, is completely out of the
danger zone and was dismissed from the Covington hospital
Wednesday evening.
We congratulate Mr. Searcy for his heroism and his
devotion to the task in the performance of his aty. The
fact that he was making the trip, in itself a dangerous
one, to save the life of a Negro did not seem to make much
difference.
We shall grow better and stronger citizens, white and
black in Georgia when as we shall discover more men like
Mr. Searcy. And by such men and women of goodwill we
shall have a better Šouth and better America.
