I Love America!' America'! Love
HREE weeks ago, mobs in Lake County,
Fla., began a series of attacks on the
Negro citizens of Groveland and other
nearby communities within the county
which culminated in the murder of one Ne-
gro by white lynchers. This Negro boy was
said to have been one of four involved in
an alleged attack on a white woman and
her husband. The other three, indicted, are
in jail.
For more than ten days, these white
mobsters terrorized Negro settlements,
burned houses, defied the police and the
National Guard. The leaders of the mob
were well known.
More than four hundred Negroes are
reported to have fled from their homes.
THERE HAS BEEN NO WORD OF A
SINGLE ARREST TO DATE.
A few weeks ago, a demented Negro
attacked a Catholic priest in New Orleans
and inflicted wounds which caused the
death of the priest. This demented Negro
was murdered in jail.
The grand jury of Orleans Parish in-
vestigated this case, but FAILED TO
TAKE ANY ACTION.
Only last week, a mob of night-riders
rode down upon the home of a Negro in
South Carolina and shot and beat him and
his brother.
At the time this article is written, NO
ARRESTS HAVE BEEN MADE.
The above examples of the non-existence
of police protection or care for Negro citi-
zens are taken from the South, but it
should be stressed that although the South
may be the worst offender, Negro citizens
cannot trust the police to protect them in
any part of this country.
The Federal Constitution guarantees
protection of the lives and property of the
citizens of the Republic.
But it is a simple and demonstrable
fact that wherever there are differences,
with whites on one side and Negroes on
the other, there is rarely sufficient and
proper protection for the Negro.
★
If Negroes, openly and concertedly, had
acted to terrorize the whites of any Florida
community for any cause, the JAILS
WOULD HAVE BEEN FULL OF NE-
GROES BY NOW.
If a demented white man, accused of
the killing of another person, had been
mysteriously slain in jail, there would have
been action and public pressure for action.
If a mob of night-riding Negroes had
ridden down upon a white family and shot
and beaten up its male members, there
would have been speedy action to round
up Negroes, guilty or not guilty.
The situations do not have to be re-
versed.
When whites break out against other
whites, action is speedy and determined. In
Alabama, where the Klan has made the
mistake of terrorizing whites, the Klan
leaders have been thrown in jail and the
Legislature has taken steps to outlaw the
organization.
If Negroes in St. Louis weré to attempt
to drive whites, any whites, from swimming
pools in St. Louis, scores of Negroes would
end up in jail with cracked heads.
The same would be true in Chicago, De-
troit, Cleveland, Pittsburgh or Philadelphia.
The most situations where there is
interracial conflict, the Negro is the VIC-
TIM, but he is not allowed TO STRIKE
BACK.
Those who attack him can burn his
home, take his life and spit upon the Con-
stitution, but rarely are arrests made. If
Negroes are beaten up, they are carted off
to jail and efforts are made to find out
what they did to the whites so that charges
can be filed AGAINST THE NEGROEŠ
THE VICTIMS.
Negroes know all these things. They
know there is a lawless element in every
community against which they must be on
their guard. They also know, from New
York to San Francisco and from Maine to
Louisiana, that they cannot, like whites,
look to the police for enforcement of one of
the plainest guarantees of the Constitution.
Our best friends among whites can
scarcely appreciate what it means to live
from day to day without this sense of se-
curity, with the fear that a man, regard-
less of his station in life, may, for no cause
for which he is responsible, be the victim
of the white mob or the police, the s0-
called guardians of the law.
★
Would whites, consistently and deliber-
ately denied this protection, stand up and
sing, "I Love America?"
What kind of stuff on the inside of
them does it take for the Negroes of
Groveland, Fla.; New Orleans, South Caro-
lina, St. Louis and many, many other
places, to stand up and sing, "I Love Ameri-
ca"?
So far there has been only one Paul
Robeson to assert himself among Negroes.
But if conditions were reversed and
whites had to suffer at the hands of Ne-
groes what Negroes now suffer from their
white fellow-countrymen, how many Paul
Robesons would arise among them?
Would the siren song of these whites
then be, "I Love Russia" or "I Love Ameri-
ca"?
The answer is clear because even today,
without the provocation of Negroes, there
are scores of whites, for every one Negro,
who peck at the foundation stones of our
nation. While they do this, Negroes sing
"I Love America."
