An Explanation Explanation
THE
HE DIFFICULTY of understanding the southern lynching spirit soon
disappears after one has had a better acquaintance with actual racial
onditions. For instance, in Florida recently, a moh lynched a white man
for participating in a shooting feud with another white neighbor. The Negro
huste suppressed. And the lynching of white business men is undoubtedly
intended to impress the colored population with the might of the mob,
Without the shadow of a doubt, just as soon as the SUB-NORMAL
colored law breakers hear of the lynching of this white man they will im-
mediately become normal and safe units of society. It was to overase the
Negro that the Atlanta mob lynched a Jew last year. So at least southerners
have explained lynchings to us. The Georgia lynchers, we have been informed
by the "yellow journals," are respectable citizens, members of the church, some
of them, and most of them leaders in business-educated and supposed to be
enlightened.
This class of people have been the loudest in their wail against the
Mexican bandits, who in the main are reckless dare-devils, ignorant and
irresponsible. A Mexican mob is made up of nen who have during the past
few years lived in lawlessness and revolution, murder was a daily pastime.
and loot and robbery regarded as the right of the victor. The Americans
murdered by these Mexican outlaws in the early stages, were where they
had been warned not to be; where they had no right to be during times of
stress and revolution. They had been repeatedly told by American authorities
to get out of danger and stay out until conditions changed.
There is quite a little difference between a Georgia mob and a Mexican
mob, in Georgia the victims are Negroes mobbed by whites, more often than
not, for no particular offense, in Mexico whites were murdered by outlaws.
The one is killed while supposedly under the protection of their own flag, in
their own country, the other is killed on foreign soil under the flag of the
highwayman and the professional murderer. There must be some good people
in Georgia, but if they lift their voice in condemnation of the men who ruth-
lessly kill their own fellow citizens and set at defiance the laws not only of
their state but of the nation, it is not heard beyond the confines of their own
little circle.
In Mexico, even though the government is not responsible for the depre-
dations committed by outlaws, it uses every means in its power to hunt down
the culprits and as promptly as they are found and caught make their punish-
mènt fit their crime. The American government, by its silence, gives encourage-
ment to this form of lawlessness. Mexican bandits are afraid to come out in
the open, American mobs are hailed as "best citizens." This explains in a
measure the difference between a civilized and a semi-civilized country. If
skimmed milk is cream give us chalk water.
