National
GOADEVINE GOADEVINE
Walter White's article "Why I re-
main a Negro" (Oct. 11 Saturday
Review of Literature) deserves
your reading. We trust Reader's
Digest will reproduce it in full as
they do other articles appearing.
in the Review. Otherwise, RD,
visitors to the train in the South
wouldn't have to be Jim Crowed
by line or day, the Board got
anxious. An announcement came
that the train would avoid any
town which insisted on segregation
of visitors, and F. D. Patterson of
Tuskegee was put on Board. Now
we note by the NAACP Press Re-
lease that Walter is also a member
of the Board. Meanwhile the dark-
er set in the South awaits the train,
and awaits to be shown.
THE FREEDOM TRAIN idea be-
longs to Atty. Gen. Tom Clark. At
his urging the White House in-
vited leaders from all over to come
in and sponsor it. Only Negroes
invited, or at least present, were
Walter White of NAACP and Lester
Granger of Urban League. Al-
though regarded as sponsors, they
were not listed on the Board of
Trustees.
When Negroes started putting on
the pressure to guarantee colored
Conference of NAACP, Nov. 5-9. In Asheville, Governors of 13
Southern States squirmed and talked of pooling money for
"regional" state schools for Negroes (NAACP says its unconsti-
tutional).
In New Jersey, voters on the new State constitution will con-
sider a clause guaranteeing "freedom from discrimination" in gov-
ernment, employment, education, property and business." In Harts-
ville, S. C., two whites are liable to life imprisonment (they won't
get it) for kidnaping a Negro worker and forcing him to work
across State line. In Washington, Bishop Wall reported to Army
Secretary Royall that Negro GIs in Germany don't mind orders
banning their marriage to German girls, and use it to their ad-
vantage.
In Atlanta whites set afire a house of a colored family who had
moved in a "white" neighborhood, as cops looked on. In St. Pe-
tersburg, Fla., a Rent Advisory Board had its proposal to raise rents
in Negro units nixed by Housing Expediter Creedon who ruled it
race and color discrimination. In Washington, Judge Scott freed a
colored defendant because cops had "lawlessly invaded a man's
home, his castle." In Baltimore a colored man was freed of all
charges when he killed a white man who was attempting to crash
thru his front door while a a white mob tried to fire his home.
In New York, Phillipa Schuyler, pianist-composer prodigy signed
up for concerts in Vets hospitals. In Washington a white cab
driver lost his license for 15 days for refusing to ride colored and
white passengers in the same party. In Washington, Negro Land
Grant College presidents in 25th annual meeting named a commit-
tee to further research.
Here Comes The Fredom Train!
RACE
ACE GETS AROUND. In Perry, Ga., the sheriff says a Negro
mob tried to lynch a Negro accused of rape. In Glenwood,
Iowa, six whites were found guilty of disturbing peace when they
objected to a Negro being ordered out of town. In Baltimore the
U. S. Appeals Court ruled against the Locomotive Brotherhood,
olding a union must protect all workers governed by its con-
tracts, whether it admits Negroes or not. (Tunstall case). In Hous-
ton, white delegates from South will attend 9th annual Youth
Another Just One Thing After Another After Thing One
CHEROKEE By CHARLEY CHEROKEE CHARLEY
it'll look bad.
Jimmy Forrestal, new Secretary
of Defense has a private kitchen in
his swellelegant Pentagon offices.
Maybe we will get that Negro ad-
viser in his set up after all, as a
second cook.
BUY ANOTHER U.S. SAVINGS BOND, MISTER, and guess
what big companies of what big country want the Arabs and Jews
at each others throats, so they can take out the oil thru Palestine
undist
***ED 'EM SQUIRMING!
This Ends It
ADVERTISING COUNCIL campaign this winter will promote a
"United America" and will mark first official recognition of ad
business to use of Negro characters in their copy.
In Japan, Cpl. Norrel Lewis and Pfc. Walter F. Butler find life
rather boring and lonely and want to get some letters from some
young ladies between 16 and 22. Would some of your girls mind
writing Norrel and Walt at Battery C 933rd AAA (AW) Bn; APO
503, C-o P.M., San Francisco, Cal. Thanks.
covenants.
Dr. Robert (Bob) Weaver of American Council on Race Rela-
tions in Chicago, is in D.C. helping with the work against racial
Bob taught at Columbia Summer School the past
Summer and returns next year. Meanwhile he's teaching at North-
western U, at the downtown school in Chi, and readying his new
book "Residential Segregation in the North" for Spring publica-
tion. His wife Ella is an assistant prof at Roosevelt College.
fly from Harlem to Washington for
more days than they can remem-
ber.
The boys along 7th avenue say
it will get out for Premiere as
soon as a little matter of about
$7,500, due on some production
costs. is ironed out.
Got any
dough?
Hold Your Horses
That Joe Louis Harlem-made |
film that was to coincide with and
help launch the Joe Louis Punch
campaign is still being awaited in
Washington, where it was to open
Labor Day. Ruby Dee in the rom-
ance role and others including Har-
rell Tillman have been alerted to
Palestine At Home-The Facts
Negroes may well understand that Jews are another racial mix-
ture. They range from black to blonde with every shape of head,
nose and lips. Some 5,000 black Jews live in Harlem and a whole
tribe in Ethiopia. There are Chinese, Polish, Russian and German
Jews and any notion you can always tell a Jew when you see one
is as foolish as trying to tell a Negro.
There are Jewish facists and reactionaries, liberals and pro-
gressives, radicals and communists, democrats and republicans,
angels and s.o.b.'s. Orthodox, Conservative and Reform Jews differ
as much as Lutherans. Baptists and Episcopalians. Some of our
Jewish friends have about as much in common with some rich
Jews who have disowned Jewish backgrounds, as we have with
Herbert Hoover or Franco.
Jewish merchants flourish because for generations of persecu-
tion in Europe this has been the only profession allowed them.
They've made good at it. What's wrong with that? And a lot of
rich. philanthropists who have handed heavy dough to Negro wel-
fare and education are Jews.
Jews may well understand that most anti-Semitism among Ne-
groes is based on fact nearly all Jews are "white" and when white
seems to line up against black they are lumped on the other side.
And Negroes can't help but notice such little things as Jews who
are képt out of "gentile" hotels, allow "gentiles" in Jewish hotels
but keep out Negroes..
Both may well remember that such as KKK, FEPC, quotas in
education, army discrimination, etc.. affect Jew and Negro alike.
This may not be building wholesale feelings of kinship and under-
standing but we note here from time to time a growing Jew-Negro
tolerance. In football terms, Jews and Negroes are on the same
team. If one falls down on his assignment the other suffers and
so do all the rest of the team. That's how it is.
Congressional committees which
have been probing prices and
housing should have interesting re-
ports, but everybody including civil
service and even Congress is sick
of these loyalty probes. As for the
Hollywood Red-probe daffiness, if
you don't laugh this out of the pic-
ture, it will be the press next (and
we do mean the Negro Press too).
CONGRESS
BACK in emergency
session Nov. 17 will be properly
concerned with food and Russia.
Expect also the Military Training
(Conscription) Lobby to bring that
up, and the GOP to get self right-
cous with a proposed 65c minimum
wage law, which of course will
leave out domestic and farm work-
ers.
Congress And Progress Or Vice Versa Versa Vice Or Progress And
Palestine At Home-Negroes
And Jews
Many Jews, as Sam Glasner points out in "Jewish Bookland,"
won't mention "Kingsblood Royal" (about Negroes) and "Gentle-
men's Agreement” (about Jews) in the same breath because of their
anti-Negro bias. They don't want to be linked to Negroes by usage,
problem, literature or sympathy, considering this a needless handi-
cap.
Many Negroes are strongly anti-Jewish; they hate Jews, or think
and say they do. Why's of this are understandable. It's hard for
for a cultured Negro shopper, hungry and tired in a big Jewish-
owned Department Store where she cannot use the rest rooms, try
on a dress or hat, or eat at the lunch counter, to give a hoot what
happens to Jews in Palestine.
Little Negroes who deal with the Jewish corner grocer or liquor
dealer, vent all ire against high cost of living against "these so and
so Jews." All rich absentee landlords of dirty tenements and hovels
have become in their minds: "those Jewish bs." Domestics
swear Jewish housewives demand a quart of sweat for every penny.
they pay for housework. Negro entertainment stars complain all
over the country how their Jewish managers, agents and bookers
rook them.
White taxi drivers frequently tell colored passengers: "Negroes
There's
are all right but these Jews are ruining the country.”
Jawyer Donald Richberg with rich industrial clients, who recent-
ly denounced FEPC. There's a Washington Recreation Board of-
ficial who upholds segregation and who when bearded by a white
"gentile"-"Why are you against Negroes living and playing where
they want to? Why you couldn't live in my neighborhood," answer-
ed. "I'm satisfied where I am."
In his article “Candor About Negro Jewish Relations" (Commen-
tary Feb. 1946), Dr. Ken Clark of New York U. tells how the
American Rabbis' 1945 Institute on Judaism and Race Relations
disgracefully avoided every touchy problem of Negro-Jew rela-
tionship. He also cites a N.Y. survey showing 60 percent of Jews
with unfounded prejudices against Negroes and 70 per cent of Ne-
groes with similar attitudes towards Jews.
