Timely Topics Topics
-By EARL BROWN BROWN EARL
When the jury of 12 white men brought in its
verdict in the South Carolina lynching trial last
week, 13 glum Negroes were seated in the gallery of
the yellow brick courthouse. They were, in a way,
svmbols of the protest of their entire race of 15,000,-
000 citizens against the wanton
flaunting of justice by the jury.
They were living svmbols of muti-
lated Willie Earle who was spirit-
ed from the Greenville jail and
taken out on the roadside in the
dark of night and lynched. They
were the important people in the
courtroom, for it is they and all
other Negro citizens who are often
subjected to the cruelties of race
prejudice. The white race was on
trial and the 13 solitary Negroes
were sitting in judgment.
The miscarriage of justice in
the notorious lynch case was em-
all the more because of the impeccable man
and told him that he was ashamed to be a member
of the same profession as the defense attorney who
appealed to racial and sectional prejudice at the
trial. A white man testified for the state against
the defendants. He was beaten up for doing so.
photographer was told that if he took any pictures
in Greenville, he would be run out of town. All of
the things may be taken as progressive signs of the
time.
Another interesting point that was brought out
in the trial was the amount of schooling some of
the defendants had acquired. One of them could
neither read nor write and two of them had been
only to the second grade. It seems to be obvious
that all of the defendants were not only bigoted but
also utterly without education. This is significant
because although the lack of education of thern
Negroes is always emphasized as a reason for their
alleged wrong-doing, it is never brought out as a
reason why southern whites act like beasts.
It should not be assumed, however, that educated
people are not bigoted and prejudiced. They are,
and because they are they are indirectly the cause
of lynchings and other crimes perpetrated against
Negroes, Jews, and other citizens.
Nevertheless, the courageous action of the jury
which indicted the Greenville lynchers, the heroic
conducting of the trial by Judge Martin and tho
open protest against the trial jury's verdict by some
of the white Greenvillians indicate that if the South
is ever going to become really civilized it must de-
pend upon its honest leaders. Sooner or later they
will win in their battle against the kind of southern
whites who comprised the defense counsel, the trial
jury, the defendants and a preponderant number
of white Greenvillians. For they have the support
of the responsible citizens, black and white, all over
the country.
When they do win, it can be said that Willle
Earle did not die in vain at the hands of a villain-
ous, bigoted, barbarous mob of poor white southern-
ers.
Mr. Brown Brown
