In The Nation's Capital Capital Nation's The
By LOUIS R. LAUTIER LAUTIER R. LOUIS
For NNPA News Service NNPA
As strange as it may appear, the
Federal Government is relying chiefly
upon a decision of the United States
Supreme Court forty years ago in the
case of the lynching of a colored man
to have John L. Lewis and the United
Mine Workers of America adjudged in
contempt of court for failing to obey
a restraining
order.
Briefly stated, the facts are; On
November 15 Mr. Lewis notified J. A.
Krug, Secretary of the Interior, of the
termination of the contract between
the government and the UMW. The
miners' rule is "no contract no work."
Upon the expiration of the five-day
notice, the strike of 400,000 soft coal
miners, white and colored, became au-
tomatic.
On November 18 the Government
obtained a restraining order directing
Mr. Lewis and the UMW to withdraw
the notice terminating the so-called
Krug-Lewis agreement. Mr. Lewis
and the UMW failed to obey the re-
straining order.
Mr. Lewis and the union were
cited to show cause why they should
not be adjudged in contempt. When
they appeared in the District Court
before Justice Goldsborough their
lawyers indicated that their defense
would be that the court lacked juris-
diction to issue the order.
The Government's brief filed in
the contempt-of-court proceedings cit-
ed as a precedent for adjudging Mr.
Lewis in contempt the case in which
a Tennessee sheriff conspired with a
mob which lynched a colored con-
demned prisoner after the Supreme
Court had ordered all proceedings a-
gainst the prisoner stayed.
On February 11, 1906, Johnson
was convicted of rape upon a white
woman in a criminal court in Hamil-
ton County (Chattanooga), Tennessee,
and was sentenced to death. On March
3, 1906, he filed a petition for a writ
of habeas corpus to the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals, setting up,
among other things, that colored peo-
ple had been illegally excluded from
the grand and petit juries; that his
lawyer had been deterred from plead-
ing that fact or challenging the aray
on that ground, and also from asking
for a change of venue to secure an
impartial trial, or for continuance to
allow the excitement to subside, by
the fear and danger of mob violence.
lle alleged that he had been deprived
of various, constitutional rights and
was about to be deprived of his life
without due process of law.
Upon March 10, 1906, his petition
was denied and it was ordered that
Johnson be remanded to the custody
of the Hamilton County sheriff, to be
detained by him for a period of ten
days so that he could prosecute an ap-
peal, and in default of the prosecution
of the appeal within that time the sen-
tence of death was to be carried out.
On March 17 an appeal to the Su-
preme Court was allowed by Justice
John M. Harlan. On the following
Monday, March 19, a formal order
was made by the Supreme Court and
it was ordered that all proceedings a-
gainst Johnson be stayed The Hamil-
ton County Sheriff was notified by
telegraph of the order, and the even-
ing papers of Chattanooga published a
full account of what the Supreme
Court had done.
It was alleged that the sheriff had
been informed, and had reason to be-
lieve, that an attempt would be made
that night by a mob to lynch Johnson.
The sheriff early in the evening with-
drew the customary guard from the
jail and left only the night jailer in
charge.
Subsequently. the sheriff and
many others unknown conspired to
break into the jail to lynch Johnson,
with intent to show contempt for the
Supreme Court and to prevent it from
hearing Johnson's appeal and Johnson
from exercising his rights.
In furtherance of this conspiracy,
the mob broke into the jail, took John-
son out and lynched him. The sheriff
and the jailer pretended to do their
duty but really sympathized with and
abetted the mob.
The final acts as well as the con-
spiracy were alleged as contempt. In
an opinion written by the late Justice
Oliver Wendell Holmes, the court held
that even if the United States Circuit
Court had no jurisdiction to entertain
the petition for habeas corpus of one
convicted in the state court, and the
Supreme Court had no jurisdiction of
an appeal from the order of the Cir-
cuit Court denying the petition, the
Supreme Court and the Supreme
Court alone, had jurisdiction to decide
whether the case was properly before
it, and, until its judgment declining
jurisdictions was announced, it had
authority to make orders to preserve
existing conditions, and a lawful dis-
regard of those orders constituted
contempt.
The court said it was unable to
agree that the grounds upon which the
petition for habeas corpus was pre-
sented were frivolous or a mere pre-
tense. "The murder of the petitioner
has made it impossible to decide that
case," Justice Holmes added.
On the basis of this decision, the
Government contends in the contempt
proceedings against Lewis and the
UMW that the District Court had
power to issue the temporary restrain-
ing order, and has corresponding pow-
er and jurisdiction to compel enforce-
ment and punish Lewis and the UMW
tor wilfully failing or refusing to com-
ply with such an order.
* * *
Representative Adam C. Powell,
Democrat of New York,will have
new secretary when the Eightieth
Congress convenes January 3 ... The
NAACP factional row here over the
job of executive secretary of the local
branch is being hushed up. Bill Hill
will retain the position . . . The Char-
ley Elams (Frances) are apart.
