Facts and Fancies
(Continued from page 4)
or inability to come to work on time.
These are traits which can not be cured by any kind
of legislation. Whether in new or old fields of employ-
ment, the lessons of punctuality and dependability ought
to be learned by the Negro worker. There is, up to this
moment, no law I know of which can compel an employer
to keep inefficient men and women on his payroll.
BAD GRAMMAR
…... Much àdo was made recently over the language used
by Dizzy Dean, famous baseball pitcher of a few years
back, but now a broadcaster of baseball games in St.
Louis. Dizzy's language, while colorful and picturesque,
ignores all rules of grammar. There's some excuse for
his lapses, but none for those of men who have had much
better educational advantages.
Our local broadcasters of baseball games come up
with some "hot" ones practically every day. Comment-
ing recently on the listless attitude of spectators at a
game, one broadcaster said: "They have not been cheer-
ing. It has not been the kind of game that brings you to
ITS feet." The next day, remarking on the fact that a
pitcher had done all right in the first inning, he said:
"Fowler has gotten off on a GOOD foot."
Facts and Fancies and Fancies
BY EUSTACE GAY EUSTACE GAY
BEARDING THE LION IN HIŞ DEN THE LION IN HIŞ DEN
From Monroe, Ga., where four defenseless Negroes
were lynched a few weeks ago, comes a card from a min-
isterial friend, who tells me that the delegates to the Na-
tional Baptist Convention held in Atlanta, Ga., last week
were as outspoken there as they had been in Philadel-
phia. To quote: "Nothing that we said in Philadelphia
has not been said, even here. And a warm reception is
being given us."
As a matter of fact, several of my friends
in the ministry bravely "bearded the lion
in his den" by going from Atlanta to Mon-
roe and placing a wreath on the graves of
Dorsey and his sister, Dorothy Malcolm.
In his party were, among others, Revs.
Henry T. McCrary, Leonard G. Carr, B.
E. Barton and C. H. Churn, all of Phia-
delphia.
GAY
To quote further': "Right here in Monroe, the Ne-
groes are not afraid. The white folks are trying to be
more courteous, and polite than ever. The Negroes in
Atlanta are outspoken against the outrage and the FBI
are still on the job here in Monroe. I just saw two of the
agents."
My hat's off to these men who had enough courage
to make a pilgrimage to the graves and to conduct public
ceremonies there. A story of the pilgrimage appears in
this issue on the church page, credit for which is given to
the Atlanta Daily World.
CHILDREN ON PICKET LINE
With recent months, very few strikes have been con-
ducted in which children have not been employed on the
picket line. I wonder sometimes about using children in
this way. They certainly have no adequate conception of
what they are doing or of the issues involved. I think
picketing is an adult activity.
"I ONLY KILLED ONE GUY”
The influence of popular songs on public thinking is
amply illustrated in the reply made to a detective by a man
accused of murder. "I want you for murder", the detec-
tive said to the accused man. "So what?", asked the ac-
cused, "I ONLY KILLED ONE GUY.” I can see now
why the major networks have barred the calypso tune,
"Cold Stone Dead in the Market", in which a woman who
had killed her husband expressed amazement over the
furore caused by her act when, after all, she had "killed no-
body but my husband.”
FEPC MAJOR ISSUE
The two major political parties are using the contro-
versial FEPC issue for all it's worth. In New York State,
both parties favor it. In fact, the candidate for United
States Senator is one of the co-sponsors of the FEPC leg-
islation in that State. In Pennsylvania both major part-
ies have included a State FEPC in their platforms.
It may be interesting in this connection, especially to
those who are skeptical about State or Federal FEPC
legislation, to know that after a year's operation in New
York State, it is the considered judgment of the Commis-
sion enforcing the law that "this legislation is providing
an effective instrument for the breaking down of discrim-
inatory patterns in employment.”
The review published by the New York Commission,
in surveying its first anniversary, continues: "It is a fact
that definite progress has been made and that many doors
hitherto closed and barred to members of various minor-
ity groups have now been opened." According to a mem-
ber of the staff of the New York SCAD (State Commis-
sion Against Discrimination), qualified Negroes are work-
ing today in department stores, in banks, in insurance
companies, in big utilities where 10 years ago they did not
work."
Two warnings may be issued: First, the New York
SCAD realizes that no agency could wipe out such a deep-
rooted thing as discrimination, based as it is on human
prejudices and ignorance, in a year. Secondly, may I say
that much of the effectiveness of the law depends on the
records made by men and women who break into these
new fields. I happen to know that many white employers
of Negro labor while they have no complaint about the
quality of the work the majority of colored workers do,
nevertheless 8 are c
considerably irked by (1) the amount of
time we take e off from jobs and (2) our unwillingness
(Continued on Page 5)
PORNO
2.
38.
HARY
