RACE RELATIONS
(EDITOR'S NOTE: Because this column is designed to give
readers a picture of current conditions in relations between the
races in the United States, readers all over the country are urged
to send contributions to the Defender from their own experi.
ences. If you know of an interesting incident or one happened
to you, send it to us. It will be forwarded to Mr. Smith, enabling
him to give a more adequate interpretation of events in various
areas of America).
Starkness
tion in Washington when the Monroe, Ga., lynchings set off a
wave of mob-lynch terror in the South. With forthrightness these
first ladies forgot their political differences (most of the better
known and older ones are staunch Republicans), girded their skirts
and dignity and actually marched in a long picket line in front of
the White House.
*
That is all but one; a prominent lady from a state particularly
afflicted with white-supremacy fascism. She explained frankly
that should she be pictured carrying a protest banner or even have
her name mentioned as being in the parade, her home in
would be burned down before nightfall. This in spite of the fact
that her physician husband has both colored and white patients.
Nobody censored her because everybody recognized the stark
truth.
✓
Chronic
SOME WEEKS ago we commented on the practice of certain
badge and button companies. They address college fraternities
with chapters at colleges for colored students with the objection-
able form-"Alpha Omega Kappa Fraternity, Negro."
Happily we noted an advertisement from the Merit Badge and
Button Company in Minneapolis which sanely left off the "Ne-
gro." Fraternity secretaries have hot thrown their ads in the
waste basket as has been customary.
Unhappily however, we noted that on Sept. 4, the Pennsyl- ·
vania Railroad wrote, to all the fraternities over the signature
of F. M. Ware the General Passenger. Agent, and on envelope
and in salutation there it was again—"Beta Delta Sigma Frater-
nity, Negro."
The New York Central Railroad is vying with the Pennsyl-
vania for the business of supplying special trains to the fraternity
meeting places in December. If their Passenger Agent has any
common sense, cr has an educated secretary he can get the busi-
ness easily.
Located
WASHINGTON Branch of the Southern Conference for Human
Welfare is a Johnny-come-lately as branches go. Originally it
sort of served as the Washington lobby for the National Office lo-
cated in Nashville. At the insistence of some of the colored mem-
bers it has lately turned its attention to the "Southern Problems" as
serious in Washington as in Meridian and Waycross.
*
Now comes recognition. The National Office of the Conference
has finally and a bit reluctantly granted full Branch Rights to the
Washington Office, and will allow it to send delegates to the con-
vention in New Orleans in November. This, it is worthy of note
in passing, sort of officially places Washington in the South.
We
THE OTHER day a friend of ours who has recently come to
Washington from a city less burdened with race prejudice went
into a restaurant in a "fringe" neighborhood. The colored wait.
ress nearest the door promptly informed her: "Sorry but we can't
serve you."
"Why not?" asked our friend.
"We can't serve colored," said the waitress.
This was frank enough but our friend was still curious. "When
you say 'we'," she asked, "do you mean 'we waitresses'?"
"We the management," said the waitress.
* *
Paradox
WE HAD to stop and laugh at ourselves the other day while
we were trying to cheer up a disgruntled young white veteran we
know. There he was “free, white, and 21," and there we were
"suppressed, colored and 42,” trying to convince him the world
isn't such a bad place to live in. Silly, ain't it?
