NAACP Flies
(Continued from page 1-A)(
NAACP Flies Albert Harris, 17-Year-Old Witness of
Louisiana Blow Torch Lynching to Haven in New York
CP offices in New York's Free-
dom House, the horrifying details
of his ordeal in the Louisiana
woods. His description of return-
ing consciousness and hearing vet-
eran John Jones groan for water
left seasoned reporters shocked
and silent. Harris said he crawled
to a creek, filled his shoe with
water which he carried to the
horribly mutilated man who only
a short time ago fought for his
country in the great Battle of the
Bulge in Belgium. Albert Harris
said that all he could do was lift
Jones's head to his lap and sit
quietly as he died. "I thought that
would make it a little easier," said
the quiet youth.
Albert Harris is considered one
of the most important witnesses
ever found by the NAACP in its
long years of fighting southern
lynch terror. It was pointed out
that in spite of the critical na-
ture of the recent lynch wave,
the FBI has not apprehended one
white southerner on a lynch
charge. One observer pointed out
"that it would be extremely odd
if no arrests were made in this
case since young Harris can posi-
tively identfiy members of the
mob."
NEW YORK The intensive search conducted by the NAACP through Louisiana,
Texas, Pacific Coast and Middlewestern states resulted in finding Albert Harris and his
father, Negro fugitive from Louisiana mob justice. Young Harris, eyewitness to the blow
torch, meat cleaver lynching of Negro veteran John C. Jones, had been the object of dra-
matic search conducted by the FBI and the NAACP as well as members of the Louisiana
mob who, fearing the youth would identify them, rushed to Texas on August 19th in hopes
of silencing him. silencing him.
Both Harrises, father and son,
were finally discovered August 23
by the NAACP which had alerted
each of its 1001 branches through-
out the nation to offer protection
to the fugitives wherever they
appeared. Madison Jones, Admin-
istrative Assistant, was rushed to
undisclosed middlewestern
an
town to bring the youth and his
father to New York where their
testimony will be made avail-
able to the FBI. The Harrises ar-
rived in New York on Wednes-
day August 28.
Young Harris was attended upon
arrival in New York by Dr. Ro-
bert S. Wilkinson who stated,
"The deep scar on the boy's fore-
head where he was beaten with
the butt end of a .45 caliber pis-
tol is still infected. There are heal-
ing scars on both wrists, arms and
ankles caused by ropes.
His
thighs and buttocks are also bad-
ly scarred after a terrible beat-
ing. He shows evidence of a se-
vere shocking experience but his
youth and good physical condi-
tion will pull him through."
Albert Harris Sr., the youth's
father was also severely beaten
when deputies and others attempt-
ed to force him to disclose the
whereabouts of his son.
Young Harris told reporters at
a press conference held at NAA
(Continued on page 3-A)Harrises
