ALMOST UNBELIEVABLE UNBELIEVABLE
WE ARE INCLINED to give the devil his due
and so wo chalk up one credit mark as a starter
toward offsetting the scores of discredit marks
charged up against Georgia, the state with the black-
est and most criminal record of any in the Union. In
a nutshell, a ħlack man sentenced to be hanged by
ono court was acquitted by a higher court. The facts
as told by the news service are interesting enough
to reproduce here:
ON APRIL 13, 1919, Joe Ruffin was indicted for
the murder of Policemen J, C. Brown and T. l'. Ste-
phens at a church festival in Millen, where they had
come to arrest Edmund Scott, Ruffin interceded
for the prisoner and offered to give bond for his ap-
pearance when wanted. A quarrel ensued, pistols
were drawn and the two officers and Scott were
killed. Ruffin surrendered and was taken to Augusta
after a mob lynched one of his relatives. After he
was indicted he was granted a change of venue. In
Savannah he was sentenced to be hanged. The higher
court set aside the verdict and granted a new trial.
On this occasion he was acquitted.
INDICTED again for the murder of Officer Brown,
he was tried on Nov. 18. 1920. Again he was was
arquitted, but so strong was public sentiment against
him that he was convicted of manslaughter and sen-
tenced to 15 years in the penitentiary. The court of
appeals set aside this latter conviction. Ruffin has
left the state for parts unknown. Such is the story.
and it drives home two salient facts-the Georgia
rabble (and they seem to be in the majority) are firm
believers in noh rule as far as the Negro is con-
cerned: second, the judges of the higher courts are,
in the main, inclined to deal out justice rather than
prejudice and to do their part toward purging Geor-
gia of her general rottenness,
RUFFIN was guiltless beyond the shadow of a
doubt or he would have been jerked into eternity in
Jess time than it takes to tell the story. Georgians
are citing this case to prove that the courts, at
least, draw no color line. The less Georglans have
to say about crime or justice, the better. It is like
a pot calling a kettle black. We repeat, we are in-
clined to give credit where credit is due and in the
action of the higher courts we see a ray of hope for
the state that has always been a blot on the Amer-
ican escutcheon.
