MOB ACTION AGAINST NEGROES INSPIRES LAWLESS ELEMENT ACTION AGAINST NEGROES INSPIRES LAWLESS ELEMENT
President Truman has done nothing in the mat-
ter of the cold-blooded lynching of two Negro men.
and their wives by a Georgia mob, that his pre-
decessors in that high office have not done. They,
too, spoke with official aloofness about official in-
were pression." They, too, haunt
2
LEE
E
throughout the terms of their
track down the Georgia murderers, a mob in Miss.
issippi was flogging an innocent Negro to death
and hurling his bruised and beaten body into a
swamp. Southern mobs have no respect for words,
from whatever highly official source they might
come. They are men of action,-decisive, murder-
ous action. They only understand the persuasive
language of action similar to their own.
That action must be taken against the ter-
rorist tactics that were called forth by Talmadge
and Bilbo in the recent elections in their states,
is the only conclusion that can be drawn now.
Unless the government of the United States has
the courage and integrity to move directly to wipe
out lynching as an instrument of policy in the
southern part of this nation, it must be prepared
to admit that it has abandoned the sane, construc-
tive leadership of Negro America and made it
possible for the lawless element to take over.
There is a strong and growing force of lead-
ership in the south that has been calling for an
"eye for an eye," retaliation every time a Negro
is lynched. Contrary to the commonly-held bellef
that Negroes are afraid to die, there are thous.
ands in the south who have been preparing to
surrender their souls for the privilege of carrying
a white face or two along with them.
*
A prominent business man in Montgomery, Ala-
bama, who is realist enough to recogize that Ne-
groes, are growing tired of being hunted and shot
down like game animals, told me of a cache of as-
sorted rifles and pistols with ammunition to fit,
found on a farm on the outskirts of town. It was,
from his description, an impressive assortment of
death-dealing weapons and there was some un-
easiness in the community for a good while after
the discovery was made. That farm was the arse.
nal and the meeting place for a group of Negroen
who planned to meet murder with murder.
This man told me that he and most of the
business mon in Montgomery gave their money
freely to the Negro churches and that they con-
sidered the ministers the real leaders of the Negro
population. He mentioned a minister who is now
pastoring a Los Angeles church as having been a
force for great good in the community.
Just how long this gentleman and the Presi-
dent of the United State expects the ministers and
the other reasoning leaders of Negro communi-
ties to be able to cope with the growing restless-
ness of their people in the face of brutal lynchings
is a question that must be answered in a hurry.
Certainly, it must be before many more lynchings
take place, for the temper of the Negro in the
south is changing for the worse.
Negroes in Georgia feel that they have been
abandoned to the tender mercy of the Klan and
its sympathizers. They are losing faith in the logic
of patient reasoning. They feel that all of the
reasoning is being done with them, while the mobs
prowl and the death toll of their people mounts
higher and higher. They cannot tell who will be
next and on what flimsy pretext. They are list-
ening to the arguments of lawless leadership; they
are preparing to die fighting back, rather than
with their backs against a wall, or with their
bodies dangling from a leafy tree.
The Georgia mass murder is the most hor-
rible example of American cruelty and deceit on
record. It did happen in Georgia, it can happen
anywhere so long as there isn't an effective Federal
policy to track down and punish the mobsters.
Lacking confidence in the Federal government,
Negroes will resort to protecting themselves out-
side the law.
..This must not be allowed to happen, and it will
not unless events place the leadership in the hands
of the lawless element.
