Capital Spotlight Spotlight
Mary McLeod Bethune, president of the Nation-
al Council of Negro Women and a former president
of the National Association of Colored Women, was
conspicuous by her absence from the parade of
women in front of the White House protesting the
quadruple lynchings in Georgia recently.McLeod
Perry Jackson, Municipal Court Judge of Cleve-
land, Marc Wheatland, Camden (New Jersey) medi-
co, Bob Johnson of O. V. Catto Lodge and Johnny
Freeman of Quaker City Lodge are candidates for
Elks' grand treasurer to succeed the late Judge
Ed Henry....A group of female impersonators
Featuring Louis Diggs, gave a boatride on the Rob-
ert E. Lee the other night.
*
*
Melvin DeBruhl, a railway mail clerk, and Marie
Roberts, an ex-schoolmarm and now an OPA em-
ployee, were married the other day....The Clarence
Lewises (Hilda Evans) are infanticipating. He's a
dentist and she's a teacher....Morris Lewis, who
was secretary to ex-Congressman Oscar De Priest,
was in the city recently.
*
Figuring that Mordecai Johnson, Howard prexy,
had worked hard last year, the trustees gave him
$1,500 for a vacation, and he's now in Mexico....
It's no longer news, but in case you don't know--
Billy Syphax, an ex-Army officer, and Orienna Col-
lins, a New York lass, were a recent merger....
Major Robinson, Bob Montgomery's press agent, re-
minds this column that Bob is recognized as the
lightweight champion in New York, Pennsylvania,
and Delaware, while Ike Williams is the recognized
lightweight title holder in the other forty-five states
ruled by the National Boxing Association.
*
*
*
Marcus Ray, civilian aide to the Secretary of
War, left Wednesday for a tour of Army installa-
tions in the Pacific. He will visit Hawaii, Okinawa,
the Philippines and Japan. Lieut. George Norford
of the War Department's Bureau of Public Rela-
tions is accompanying him. The tour will take
about thirty days.
Louis R. Lautier
White clouse Corr. Atlanta Daily
World for NNPA News Serviceclouse
First Lieut. Louis Fields, a New Yorker, has
secured atransfer to the 3372nd Quartermaster
Truck Company at Camp Kilmer (New Jersey.)
He was an infantry officer and had been ordered
toreport to the infantry replacement training center
at Fort McClellan (Alabama) but wanted to be
nearer home. Representative Adam C. Powell aid-
ed him.
*
*
Lillian Tanner, a schoolmarm, is vacationing in
Schroon Lake (New York)....The Shep Allens
(Mae) will vacation in Oak Bluffs (Massachusetts)
Ruth Welborne Davis is seriously ill at Freed-
man's Hospital.
*
*
*
*
*
Recommended for a good evening's entertain-
ment: "Windy" Wallace's dissertation of the "Uni-
ted States Navy." "Windy's" thesis is the
Navy could scrap all its elaborate plans for train-
ing colored personnel and adopt a rigorous physical
conditioning program to get the men in shape for
the manual labor to which the Navy assigns them.
"Windy" served about two years in the Navy and
was never on the water in anything larger than a
row boat at Great Lakes.
*
Seen at Highland Beach, the exclusive summer
resort in Chesapeake Bay: Laura Carson, Genevieve
Burke, Betty West and Leona Dodson Smith....
John T. (Jack) Rhines, the mortician, is still ser-
iously ailing at Freedmen's......Orion Whiting, a
sportsman, will have t oundergo an appendectomy
but after he has taken off some poundage.
Washington is wondering who will fall heir to
the job of Leon Perry, a supervising principal in
the local public schools. He is ill and is expected
to retire account of physical disability.Lieut
