OTHER PAPERS SAY PAPERS SAY
ANOTHER ANTI-LYNCHING BILL
FAILS
[Bristo! Va + Herald-Courier }
The senate judiciary committee has refused
to report the McKinley anti-lynching bill, in-
troduced by Senator McKinley of Illinois. The
measure was similar to the Dyer bill, which
passed the house some years ago but died in
the Sonste
Under the terms of the McKinley bill, any
county in which a lynching took place would
he required to foricit $10.000 to the estate of
the victim. and any state or county officer
who permitted mob to lynch a prisoner for
whom he was responsible would he subject to
a penalty of not more than five years in
prison or a fine of not more than $5.000, or
both.
Even if congress should pass an anti-lynch-
ing law, it should not pass such a measure as
the McKinley bill or the Dyer bill. It would
he unjust to a county to require it to pay
$10,000 or any other amount to the estate of
the victim because a band of lawless persons
perpetrated a lynching in the county. It would
also be unjust in many cases to punish a
state or county officer responsible for a pris-
oner lynched by a mob.
Officers of the law can not always prevent
lynchings, even at the risk of their lives. Be-
sides, mobs sometimes get to accused persons.
ahead of the officers, as happened down in
Florida the other day, when a mob lynched an
innocent Negro. Doubtless the people of the
county in which the lynching occurred deplore
the outrage as much as any member of con-
gress, but they could not have prevented it.
Such a law as that proposed by the McKin-
ley bill might operate to prevent a lynching
now and then, but it would not prevent the
most of them, and the injustices of the meas-
ure are apparent. li congress wants to experi.
ment with anti-lynching legislation, let it pass
a law providing that federal officers shall in-
vestigate lynchings and hunt down lynchers
where state and county officers are unable or
unwilling to enforce the law against the mob.
At the same time. state and county officers
could do their utmost to enforce the law
against the mob. Every unpunished act of
mob violence is an indictment of the lawful
authorities and strengthens sentiment for a
federal anti-lynching law.
