OTHER PAPERS SAY PAPERS SAY
MORE MOBBERY MOBBERY
[Richmond Times Dispatch 1 Richmond Times Dispatch 1
How long. Oh Lord, how long will the de-
cent. law-abiding citizens of Virginia submit
to the reign of mobbery and thuggery which
is defying the laws, the courts and respectable
public opinion? How long will the state which
has been revered for its deference to duly ad-
ministered justice and to freedom of the indi-
vidual from unlawful violence be forced to
how its head in shame because of lawless mobs
which know no respect for law, hold no re-
gard for public opinions and spit upon the
courts of justice? The query becomes more
pertinent daily. It becomes more pertinent
daily because it is horne in upon the public.
conscience that in not one of the outrages upon
Virginia society has appreciable progress heen
made in ferreting out and punishing the per-
petrators, and because, too, the list of outrages
themselves continues to grow.
There is added now another to the acts of
moh terrorism. While it does not rank in
sheer barbarie brutality with the lynching of
the Negro Rird at Wytheville: while it lacks
the sensational elements, growing out of the
injection of the religious question, of the crime
committed against the person of a Catholic
priest in Princess Anne county, and while it
may not stir the public indignation as did the
whipping of two young women at Bristol, the
flogging of four men in Norfolk hy a hooded
band is equally detiant of law and order, and
equally demands strictest investigation and
sternest punishment for each and every mem.
her of that lawless mob. This latest bit of
terrorism was committed in Norfolk on the
morning of Aug. 30, 24 hours before Rev. Vin-
cent D. Warren was seized by his masked as.
sailants. but it has just been reported to the
authorities by the frightened and suffering vic-
tims. Four men were seized by the moh of 70
armed and hooded men, and three of them are
said to have been subjected to treatment al-
most incredible in a state which professes to he
civilized. But the victims have the physical
marks to prove their charges of cruel treat-
ment and consequent suffering. and prelim-
inary investigation of the authorities leads
them to credit the almost unbelievable tale.
The fourth man, it is reported by the three
victims of the unlawful lash, was released when
he produced a card purporting to identify him
with the membership of a hooded fraternal
organization,
Here, then, are four crimes, all committed
in Virginia within a month, each one of which
has defied the tenets of decent society, flouted
the courts and contemptuously kicked the law
aside. Each of them has been followed by
deep indignation and widespread protest on the
part of the state at large, and other states have
signied through their press that they were
watching Virginia with confidence that it
would justify its olden traditions of reverence
for order and justice and seek out and punish
the criminals who have shamed it.
