GRAPEVINE
WE WANNA FIGHT
Liberia.-Charge d'affaires Hibbard, acting in Lester Walton's place
for unexplained reason, indicated American troops in Monrovia are warm-
ly received. Army band, under direction of Sgt. Brice of Howard U.
fame, makes biggest hit. However, American Negro soldiers are not
impressed with Africa and write home: "This back-home-to-Africa
stuff is the bunk.”
Huachuca.-Rumor persists that new commandant of 92nd will be
General "Smoky" Joe Woods, from 93rd at Fort McClelland (Ala.)
Army old-timers recall he was once suspected of being opposed to
commissions for colored soldiers. Whispers on South Parkway and
U street say that Fry, Ariz., matter will always have a go-ahead and
never a clean bill of health. Too many old-timers at the Fort, white
and colored, have financial and other interest in the promotion.
Northwest and New England Community-Army proves Jim Crow
spreading champion, as "separate facilities," centers, libraries, cafes,
taverns, movies spring up every day where they never bloomed before,
under magic touch of the military. Witness Utah, Mass., etc.
Chicago.-Coffey School of Aeronautics (Willa Brown) announces
its largest beginner class ever-30. Pioneer air capital, the school has
furnished instructors to Tuskegee and all other Negro air cents, and
many of 9th airmen have a "Coffey" background.
Washington.-Navy still has its convictions as to the Negro's place.
Examination of files on light-skinned, blus-eyed, blond, colored enlisted
men would reveal such data: complexion, "Negro"; hair, "Negro":
eyes, “Negro." And there are officers in the Navy building who will
walk three flights rather than ride in elevator with colored women
typists. It's a fact.
.Thanks to Sherman Briscoe, that
Agriculture movie, Farmer Henry
Brown, is worth seeing... Disturbed
by Charley's pointed inquiries, Jus-
tice has come up with a partial re-
port on peonage investigation, and
navy with an account of the fare
of Negro enlistees...Supreme Court
may get that dispute over whether
Negroes are admitted to Baltimore
juries...Government, Labor and
Kaiser will confer November 10 on
discrimination at Kaiser plant on
coast...Next week-the Women...
Praise the Lord and BUY AN-
OTHER BOND. MISTER. but until
Jim Crow stops running wild,
"Keep 'em Squirming."-Charley
Cherokee.
football and baseball Jim Crow. Joe
Lillard, last of colored stars to play
football in National League (Chi-
cago Cardinals) was fired after
three years of starring because
leaders in the baseball fight kept
referring to him as a shining ex-
ample of sports democracy. Foot-
ball moguls put the pressure on
baseball magnates.
Recognized at last as a labor sup-
ply control, housing limelights. In
Portland (Ore.) another "Sojourner
Truth" threatens as white residents
of Albina area protest housing for
Negro workers war-increased from
two to five thousand. Baltimore,
dizzy with government experimen-
tation, gets another two million 420
unit addition for Negro war work-
ers. In low-cost slum clearing proj-
ects in war-boom centers. Negro
tenants striking and protesting in-
creased rentals, have no case. Their
wages have increased, they still pay
less than outsiders, and U. S. needs
immediate return on its housing in-
vestments.
BEHIND THE SCENES
Bungling
announcement
that
COFEP now has a clear field under
McNutt, War Manpower hurt race
relations by intimating Bob Weaver
had been given the gate. As Charley
said weeks ago, Bob has been or-
dered to concentrate on getting Ne-
gro workers trained, under Training
Chief McSherry. Insiders say it's a
break for Bob. taking the terrific
pressure off him and giving him
the inside in training, which right
new overshadows both placement
and in-plant treatment. The boys
lay bets Bob will be around long
after COFEP has gone the way of
so many pressure-tolerated institu-
tions.
Fighting a good fight, leaders in
effort to get Negroes in organized
baseball need your aid. Annual
policy-making baseball confab De-
cember 3. must not be allowed to
ignore question. Old Judge Landis
and team owners must be reminded,
and vigorously. Nat Low of Daily
Worker. calls timely attention to
connection between professional
NEWSREEL IN COLOR
Coming, November 11, Armistice
Day game in D. C. between Ken-
tucky State and North Carolina
State, with trimmings including that
smooth Kentucky beauty queen
(wow!)...Livingstone, Shaw, Bor-
dentown, and other institutions have
dropped football for the duration...
Good reading-Horace Cayton's Na
tion (Sept. 26) article-Fighting For
White Folks...Write Charley for a
bibliography on must war reading
... Winston Churchill proves world's
greatest optimist: "When this world
struggle is ended, race persecution
will end"...Hats off this week to
Atlanta U's Peoples college for just
us ordinary folks, Ira Reid directing. |
Chicago Sun, Baltimore Sun. Chris-
tian Science Monitor. A Wall Street
survey reports an over-all improve-
ment in use of Negro labor.
Briefly: COFEP plans to take a
look-see at police hiring in Char-
lotte...War production in Detroit
and some other centers is again
being held up while separate privies
are built for colored women, work-
ers...Groton. Conn.. Electric Boat
company wants to import 3.000 col-
ored laborers from South but pro-
tests mount...The boys know that
Sun Shipyard has hired only 4.000
Negroes to date, and had half of
these all along, and what about
Emmett Scott and the all-Negro
yard?...Puerto Rico is in a bad
way with 65 percent of population
unemployed and slowly starving be-
cause subs have cut the sea-supply
lanes...Emmer Lancaster of Com-
merce has issued a list of colored
contractors. architects and such who
have benefitted by war contracts.
other Jim Crow detachment in lower Manhattan. In Congress, white-
trash-bloc Senators fearful lest the anti-poll tax bill pass, laugh up their
sleeves and quote Andy Jackson's famous old remark: "John Marshall
has made his law, now let him enforce it."
These nordictations were offset somewhat by those white and col-
ored tenants of St. Marks Apartments in Brooklyn, who live happily in-
termingled. In Giles County, Tennessee, the sheriff proved that all
Southern "men" are not in the army and used force to prevent a lynch-
ing. In Lancaster (Pa.) Crispus Attucks center, a Negro institution.
feeds as many white kids hot lunches as colored. In Rock Island (Ill.)
a colored boy was elected president of the Senior high school class.
But it's a stalemate. Altho Father Paul Furfey (real Catholic liberal)
said: "I cannot understand those who would keep Negroes quiet for
fear of destroying national unity in war time," he offered no justifica-
tion for existence of the Jim Crow Federation of Colored Catholics,
before which he spoke. And altho Boston welcomed Roland Hayes
"home again from the barbarous South," the great singer admits his
white neighbors shout "Nigger" when he goes in his Boston back yard.
American columnist Ernie Pyle (white) writing from England con-
cerning colored "stevedore" troops stationed there, quotes colored
bugler Fred Emery (former trumpeter with Earl Hines, Jimmie Lunce-
ford, etc.): "I like the attitude of the people, I want to live here after
the war." Pyle adds that a lot of other Negro soldiers in England
feel the same way. This is no compliment to American democracy.
The whole thing makes us a little sick, and as Langston Hughes says:
"It embarrasses us to see our white folks acting foolish.”
HIT
ITLER'S LITTLE HELPERS are busy as bees. In Atlanta, a
white man may not ride in a "Negro" taxi, or vice versa, at State
Supreme Court direction. In Laurel (Miss.) the grand jury simply ig-
nored the lynching of Negro Howard Wash-"so what!" In Alexandria
(La.) sale of the Defender and other Negro newspapers containing
reference to that soldier case, is punishable by "haid beatin'." In New
York, demands that Negroes be allowed to enlist in the State Guard
without being referred to Harlem, were met by establishment of anITLER'S
By CHARLEY CHEROKEE CHARLEY CHEROKEE
WE WANNA WORK
Decentralization of government
moves some of Black Cabinet out
of D. C. Jerome Robinson and other
FSA'ers are in Cincinnati. Cornelius
King. Farm Credit. in Kansas City.
Joe Houchins, Census, and Roscoe
Brown. Public Health, to nearby
Maryland. War Department biggies
to nearby Virginia. Meanwhile re-
port says Constance Daniel (at lib-
erty from FSA) gets a Red Cross
public relations spot. Race problems
compel hiring of Negro counselors
in personnel offices-Mildred Ver-
non and Capitolia Newborn in War
Department, and Thelma Tabb in
OEM. Tom Roberts performs this
service among others for Agricui-
ture.
Portrayal of the Negro's new-
found importance in industry con-
cerns many larger white daily
papers. Well-illustrated, six-article
series are running in such as De-
troit News, St. Louis Post Dispatch,
