EXPRESSED BY OUR
CONTEMPORARIES
More Mobbery Mobbery
(From the Richmond Times-Dispatcb.) From the Richmond Times- Dispatcb.)
How long, oh Lord, how long will the decent
law-ahiding citizens of Virginia submit to the reign
of mobbery and thuggery which is defying the lawa.
the courts and respectable public opinion? How long
will the State which has been revered for its defer-
ence to duly administered justice and to freedom
of the individual from unlawful violence be forced to
bow its head in shame because of lawless mobs which
know no respect for law, hold no regard for public
opinion and spit upon the courts of justice? The
query becomes more pertinent daily. It becomes
more pertinent daily.because it is borne in upon the
public conscience that in not one of the outrages
upon Virginia society has appreciable progress been
made in ferreting out and punishing the perpetrators.
and because, too, the list of outrages themselves
continues to grow.
There is added now another to the acts of mob
terrorism. While it does not rank in sheer barbaric
brutality with the lynching of the Negro Bird at
Wytheville; while it lacks the sensational elements,
growing out of the injection of the religious question,
of the crime committed against the person of a
Catholic priest in Princess Anne County, and while
it may not stir the public indignation as did the
whipping of two young women at Bristol, the flog.
ging of four men in Norfolk by a hooded band is
equally defiant of law and order, and equally de-
mands strictest investigation and sternest punish-
ment for each and every member of that lawless
mob. This latest bit of terrorispi was committed in
Norfolk on the morning of August 20, twenty-four
hours before Rev. Vincent D. Warren was seized
by his masked assailants, but it has just been re-
ported to the authorities by the frightened and sur-
fering victims. Four men were reized by the mob
of seventy armed and hooded men, and three of them
are said to have been subjected to treatment almost
focredible in a State which professes to be civilized.
But the victimus have the physical marks to prove
their charges of cruel treatment and consequent suf-
fering, and preliminary investigation of the authori.
ties leads them to credit the almost unbelievable
tale. The fourth man, it is reported by the three
victims of the unlawful lash, was released when he
produced a card purporting to identify him with the
membership of a hooded fraternal organization.
Here, then, are four crimes, all committed in Vir-
ginla within a month, each one of which has defied
the tenets of decent society, flouted the courts and
contemptuously kicked the law aside. Each of them
has been followed by dee indignation and wide.
spread protests on the part of the State at large, and
other States have signified through their press that
they were watching Virginia with confidence that it
would justify its olden traditions of reverence for
order and justice and seek out and punish the crimi.
nals who have shamed it. And yet in each of the
immediate localities where a mob crime was per
petrated there has been a measure of apathy that is
Inexplicable. Perhaps the local authorities are mov
Ing with all the dispatch and vigor possible. Let it
be devoutly hoped that they are, but in the continu.
ing absence of any concrete results the distressing
conviction grows that Virginia is becoming safe for
the operations of terrorists.
