Grapevine
By Charley Cherokee Charley Cherokee
THAT ANNOUNCEMENT
from Tuskegee listing three lynchings
for the first half of 1942, was a signal for a storm of protests and
controversy. North Carolina claims that the Gaston case wherein a
Negro was done to death by four whites was a murder and not lynch-
ing. Many voices join in including William Johnson (colored member
N. C. Charity board). Tuskegee is called inaccurate and "radical."
Hitherto, in lynching interpretation, the N,A.A.C.P. has been regarded
as "radical" the Inter-Racial Commissions as "conervative” and Tus-
kegee in between.
Meanwhile the South is busy pointing with pride to an Eastman, Ga.,
mob reported to have returned a Negro prisoner when they decided the
evidence insufficient. Florida in particular, still smarting under Column-
ist Pegler's jibe that it is "a social and intellectual slum" in the matter
of racial relations, is jubilant. Characteristically, nobody mentions the -
lawlessness involved in a mob setting itself up as a court of justice.
"
$1
н
RACE RELATIONS FRONT
In New York, Former Governor
Alfred E. Smith, and Park Commis-
sioner Moses resigned in disgust
from the National Society for the
Preservation and Encouragement of
Barbershop Singing, because a
colored quartet, winners in the New
York finals, were barred from the
St. Louis National contest because
of southern objection.
In Washington, Secretary Ickes
ordered all public golf courses open
to Negroes, but police had to quell
the fisticuffing when 40 Negro golf-
ers on the East Potomac Links were
prevented from entering a club-
house when a rainstorm came up
on the 13th.
In Georgia. Gov. Talmadge (The
rodent) finally succeeded in oust-
ing Cocking of Georgia and Pitt-
man of Georgia Teachers college
because they were men enough to
think Jim Crow the bunk. During
ousting proceedings you dear color-
ed people were called everything
but God's children.
In Missouri, the State Supreme
court upheld segregation at the Mis-
souri U. Journalism school, con-
tending that courses are available
for colored at Lincoln.
In Philadelphia, Negro members
of the Allied Emergency council,..
mindful of the recent race riot at a
swimming pool, flatly voted down
all suggestions of Jim Crow ar-
rangements in recreation.
In Short: Washington civic lead-
ers conferred with the Commission-
er over the crime wave involving.
Negroes and blamed most of it on.
abominable housing.
Chatta-
nooga white citizens believe that
failure to punish Negro criminals
when their crimes are against other
Negroes has led to crimes against
whites.
Virginia Inter-Racial
Commission has issued a bulletin
urging branch commissions in all
communities of the state
A..
colored group including William
George (Vice Counsul to Liberia)
and Dutton Ferguson (WPA) "test-
ed" the dining room at the new
Washington Airport and were serv-
ed OK. . . . Colored kids can't seem
to make the grade in the soap-box
derby, how come?
→
VU.
THE LOW DOWN
The gals at the conference at Howard U. called by the A.K.A. and
National Council of Negro Women, booed a certain minister from the
floor when he spoke against labor's right to strike and against the
foreign-born.
That notorious narcotic ring in Dallas was broken with ease by a
Negro Federal agent assigned to the case when white agents failed.
Too many of the ring-leaders were colored and would not take any
white man into their confidence.
That Harvard sociologist says real Americans will show their patriot-
ism by having larger families. This makes Negroes on relief the daran-
dest patriots Charley ever laid eyes on. -
The old chain letter racket has revived in a new guise, and as usual
the dear brothers and sisters are falling for it like a ton of bricks. You
know the gag, you place your name on the bottom and send the other
names on the list a 25-cent defense saving stamp.
Short Wave Radio enthusiasts say a Berlin, Germany broadcaster
speaking in English regularly calls attention to the fact that the U. S.
cannot be a democracy as it claims inasmuch as it discriminates against
Negroes.
Those were Republicans who defeated the bills in Pennsylvania Legis-
lature which would have helped to prevent defense industry discrim-
ination. What's wrong with that picture?
Keep your eyes focused on Milton P. Webster of Chicago, assistant
big chief of the Porters Brotherhood. Charley has always regarded him
as a rather weak brother and would not have nominated him as a mem-
ber of the defense discrimination committee. However since he last
came to our attention, we assume that he has absorbed some of the
militancy that apparently is becoming a more important ingredient in
Negro blood these days, else we're sure Brother Randolph would not
have urged his appointment. One weak brother can sabotage the gains
won by the job march threat.
THE EMPLOYMENT
FRONT
Welfare Council of New York
City has issued a booklet,-The Ne-
gro Worker in New York City,-an-
other summary of what's wrong..
Hearings were scheduled to start
July 14 on the Marcantonio Bill
against race discrimination in de-
fense, HR-3994, sponsored by the
Negro Congress, and applying to
government as well as industry. . .
Al Smith (WPA) insists heatedly
that there is no such thing as a
non-defense project as far as Negro
workers are concerned. . . . . Cleve-
land Mayor Blythin met with color-
ed leaders in an effort to break job
discrimination. . . . Defense classes
in explosives now being conducted
at Howard U. have 290 students, half
of them white.
Chain dailies
have been carrying an identical
editorial denouncing
crimination,
defense dis-
AMERICA NEEDS
ALL HER STRENGTH.-stating
that now its not a question of who
you are, but what you can do. . . .
Lombardo Toledano, secretary gen-
eral of the Latin American Federa-
tion of Labor is loud in praise of
the President's order on discrimina-
tion in defense.
Negro hotel
workers in the South are growing
through the pains of organization
and exhibit an unbelievable ignor-
ance on labor matters. .. OPM
has made Robert Weaver a member
of the Labor Supply Branch in addi-
tion to his other duties. . . Hill-
man (OPM) and others discussed
Negro workers during the Congres-
sional hearings last week on nation-
al defense migration.
Indiana
Chamber of Commerce held its first
meeting on defense discrimination.
TH' AHMED FO'CES, SUH!
Good old big-hearted Navy has at last opened enlistment in the Naval
Reserves to Negroes as (yes you guessed it) MESS ATTENDANTS.
While Arthur Hardy (Newark Y.M.C.A.) was being given a big
send-off as he started on his job with the USO, Edna Thomas (Negro
Actor' Guild) was addressing a sizzling letter to USO protesting a
"policy of gross discrimination" against Negro actors. Seems whites
entertaining in troupes at the camps get paid but Negro actors are ex-
pected to be dollar-a-year men.
●
Seven Negro inductees who have earned their Sgt. and CpL stripes
since their induction a few months ago, helped draw the numbers for
the Second National Selective Service Lottery in Washington on the
17th. They were entertained at the Y.M.C.A. at a banquet and dance.
Some Negroes in New York City have been appointed air-raid wardens
as that city of skyscrapers gets ready for the inevitable fracas. This
brings up the interesting question of air-raid shelters. Will a Negro
in Washington be allowed to duck into a "white" shelter when he hears
a bomb whistling down, or will he have to run twelve blocks to a "color-
ed" shelter on U Street? And people sleep all night in shelters, you
know and ... well refer all such questions to Mitchell and Brown
Segregation Company, Inc.
