The Globe Trotter Globe Trotter
Bv Cliff Mackay Cliff Mackay
Prediction Comes True Comes True
READING THE NEWSPAPER accounts of the
clemency hearings held before Governor Talmadge
in the cases of the six East Point (Ga) floggers,
this writer cannot help but think of the admonition
stated by the late Booker T. Washington years ago
that beatings and lynching of Negroes would inev-
stably lead to beatings and lynching of white men.
A perfect example of the truth
of this conclusion has been shown
in the cases of these men, facing
comparatively brief terms, but who
now plead to be released from even
this punishment.
time this reaches
Perhaps by the
print the Gov-
ernor will have already reached a
decision. That
will not matter
since whether or not these men go
free does in no way affect this
piece.
The tragedy was that those re-
sponsible for the enforcement of
just
But seeing how freely they could seize innocent
Negroes off the streets and from within the sanctity
of their homes while those sworn to uphold the law
either winkea or turned their backs the other way.
the floggers no doubt reasoned that the same thing
could be done with white victims.
Uncounted hundreds of Negroes were victims of
this band of terrorists. Many were so intimidated
they were actually afraid to report their harrowing
experiences. Others seeing that nothing was ever
done about it, thought it was not worth the effort
of telling the police.
Acting as judge, jury and executioner the flog-
gers pounced upon these unfortunate-people for the
most part feeble of excuses. One man was beaten
sc badly he remained in bed three weeks because
he talked back to a white employer." Another's
back still carries ugly scars left by the heavy leather
lash because he argued with a white woman em-
ployer, whom he charged had short-changed him.
cut of his wages.
COOK THREATENED ·
A woman. an exceptionally good cook, was
seized and severely frightened.. though she wasn't
beaten. because she had given the white woman she
was working for a notice that she was leaving to
accept a job paying higher wages,
These are but three scattered instances of the
type of terrorism that was being practiced against
Negrocs in Fulton county. long before the floggers
became ambitious and began using their lashes nn
white victims.
Even at this late date, one of the leading op-
ponents to granting clemency to the six floggers.
fails to see the close relationship of all floggings,
whether the faces of the victims be white or black.
Dr. Edward G. Mackay, district superintendent
of the Methodist Church in Atlanta was bitter in
his denunciation of what he termed the "new klan
and its methods."
PRAISES "OLD KLAN"
Yet in the same breath, this apostle of the
Christian faith. finds nothing displeasing in the "old
klan and its methods."
"I honored and respected the old Ku-Klux Klan
because it worked for those things which were right."
Dr. Mackay argued.
In other words, we find this minister defending
the beatings, persecutions and Ivnching of Necroes
as practiced by the old klan "noble deeds" while
hecoming very much incensed over the actions of
the "new klan" doubtless because it has failed to
limit its terroristic practices to Negroes.
Well, brother, that is sure enough Christianity-
Southern style.
8
маскау
