Murder and Background and Background
From the Richmond Times-Dispatch the Richmond Times- Dispatch
The lynching of a Negro at Quincy.
Fla, on Tuesday, occurred under cir-
cumstances of more flagrant neglect by
the sheriff than many similar cases of
mob violence in some of the darkest
years of the history of this peculiarly
American crime. In most cases of
lynching, the sheriff has made much
more pretense of giving his prisoner
protection, than in this instance. There
were other unusual aspects of this case.
While the accused man was suspected
of attempted assault upon a 12-year-
old white girl, no formal charge had
been placed against him. The most
extraordinary feature of the case, is
that the victim was twice taken from
his legal protectors.
Only four masked men wrested him
from the sheriff the first time. He was
taken from the jail, beaten and shot,
and left for dead. The men had not
done their work well. Their victim
dragged himself to the home of an-
other Negro near. Quincy. There he was
again picked up by the sheriff, to be
taken in an unguarded ambulance to
Tallahassee. News of this fact leaked
out in some mysterious way, and this
time a band of masked men did their
work well. The man they had con-
demned to death without trial, was
killed.
The people who administered this
summary execution, with horrible bru-
tality, may have been among their vic-
tim's accusers, but since no formal
charge was made, how do we know that
it had any basis whatever? There is
no doubt that many innocent men have
been lynched.
There is really little chance that we
shall ever finally banish the crime of
lynching in the South, until we have
done much more about the background
which supplies such a favorable setting
for the crime. When there is a wider
realization that the Negro should have
greater opportunity to live and to work,
there will be a relaxation of the pres-
sure designed to hold him down. The
year 1919, when thousands of white
men who had been in the military and
naval services returned to seek their
jobs in the South, was the worst year
in the modern history of lynching.
There were 83 lynchings in the United
States that year, and 76 of the vicctims
were Negroes.
Lynchings have declined, and Ne-
groes have gained more political rights
than enjoyed in 1919, but we doubt
nevertheless, whether their economic
condition in the South has improved.
It may even be worse than it was 20 or
30 years ago. The Negro has been
shoved out of the skilled trades, and
pushed off the best agricultural land.
Although the thought is one we should
like to dismiss, perhaps one reason why
lynchings have declined is that the Ne-
gro is in a more hopeless position than
ever to compete economically with the
dominant race,
