CONSTITUTIONAL GOVERNMENT AT ITS WORST GOVERNMENT AT ITS WORST
Intimidation of citizens who wish to exercise their consti-
tutional right to vote should be one of the worst crimes in a
democratic nation. However, under the disguise of Ku
Klan robes, with auto license plates covered, a gang of
llums paraded through the streets of Miami, Fla., last week
warned Negroes to stay away from the polls. Lynchers'
es were openly displayed. A colored man was hanged in
ry in the public streets of Miami, with a sign on him read-
This Nigger Voted."
While all of these acts occurred in the bright sunshine
that Florida boasts of so much. government officials, state or
federal, made no arrest, conducted no investigation and gener-
ally did nothing about it.
The incident rated only meager mention in most of our
metropolitan dailies. A few carried pictures. However, edi-
torial comment has been nil. All of which shows that America,
the land of the free and the home of the brave, is growing cal.
loused to the denial of constitutional rights to a large segment
ur population.
The South has long been the breeding ground for subver-
isms that conflict with our constitution and bill of rights.
:
s the one rotten apple in our governmental barrel. Already
influence has contaminated government in many northern
blaies. How long lovers of democratic government and liberal
citizens will permit the South to despoil and defile the princi-
ples we claim to hold so dear. is a matter of conjecture.
Who knows but that in some of these southern cesspools,
this nation is now incubating another Hitler or Mussolini, who
may soon come forth and rend th country in twain, and start
a conflagration that will wipe out every vestige of racial toler-
ance developed here in the last 150 years? What happened in
Florida last week is but another symptom indicating a serious
cancerous growth that must be eradicated else this nation join
the legion of the damned along with Germany and Italy.
*
GILLESPIE CANNOT DESTROY WILBERFORCE WILBERFORCE DESTROY CANNOT
No other motive can be ascribed to Representative Chester
Jesse Owens. However, it seems that he has finally lost the
race with his creditors, for, last week, the hero of the Olympics
came back to Cleveland and filed a petition in bankruptcy. It
is evident now that Jesse was just as fast in piling up debts as
he was records on the cinder paths.
No shinny cup or medal will await Jesse at the end of this
latest race. but his award will be an experience that should
last him through the rest of his life. Few athletes ever show
in their personal affairs the same good judgment they display
on the field of competition. While it may be comforting to
Jesse to know that other athletes have met the same fate that
now involves him, it nevertheless, does not excuse him for his
financial misdeeds.
Jesse is still young enough, if he is made of the right stuff,
to take this defeat, and come back and justify the confidence
millions of people have placed in him. It is a far cry from the
adulation and cheers of the world to the ignominy of a bank-
ruptcy court, but there is a trail that leads back. We hope
Jesse will take this and in a new field reestablish himself in the
good graces of the public.
