CONG. MITCHELL PRAISED. MITCHELL PRAISED
Montgomery Advertiser, Remembering Mitchell as Former Newsboy, Says
He Was Brave to "Stand Up in the Parliament of this Republic and De-
nounce the 'Pending Anti-Lynching Bill' "-Says He Knows Professional
Friends of Race Are Phoney.
"The action of the only Negro in Congress the other day in voicing his opposition
to the anti-lynching bill should bring a blush of shame to the white 'politicians,' es-
pecially any Southern Congressman, who is willing to play this anti-lynching game.
The story of this Negro Congressman, who had the courage and faith of his convic-
tion, is well told by the Montgom-
ery Advertiser, that once employ-
ed him as a newspaper carrier.
Here it is:
"The Good Boys in congress |
are again in great lather over a
pending federal anti-lynching bill.
Their churns are making sop for
the Negro voters in the northern
cities to lap up. They are concern-
ed primarily with political vic-
tories at the polls and not with
the security of human life.
"Congressman Mitchell, Demo-
crat of Illinois, the only Negro'
member of congress, sees through
the scheme and in one of the
bravest speeches ever made in the
house of representatives denounc-
ed it forthrightly and intelligently..
Mitchell jeopardized his political
future when he made that speech.
We applaud his courage, but his
gallantry does not surprise us, for
Mitchell is a native of Alabama.
Once he was Booker T. Washing-
ton's crrand boy, at Tuskegee In-
stitute, once he was a carrier boy
for The Advertiser, Now he is a
successful lawyer in Chicago. His
Arst great political achievement
was the defeat of another Ala-
Negro,
bamian, Oscar De Priest,
who some years ago made some
thing of a spectacle of himself as
a Republican member of the
house.
"Soon after his first election to
congress, Mitchell sat in this of-'
fice for a pleasant half hour and
said, 'I want to be an American
congressman, not a Negro con-
gressman. I love my people, to be
sure, but I also love all other peo
ple, and I think it is an obligation
of statesmanship to act in behalf
of all the people rather than in
behalf of classes.'
"Mitchell knows that the pro-,
fessional friends of his race are;
phoney. But he is dependent in
Chicago upon a constituency that
is susceptible to the wiles of the
professional Do-Doods. And so it
was brave of him to stand up in
the parliament of this republic
and denounce the pending anti-
lynching bill."
"Americans-southerners at least
-are rapidly overcoming the mob
spirit. In the end, without federal
coercion they will extirpate it."
"The Washington Merry-Go-
Round, a column edited by Drew
Pearson and Robert S. Allen, is
authority for the statement that
'the big-behind-the-scenes sensa-
tion in the battle over the anti-
lynching bill is inside word that
Vice President Garner favors al-
lowing the measure to come to a
vots in the senate," comments the
Vicksburg (Miss.) Evening Post,
editorially.
"As is well known the senate
has been the only stumbling block
to the enactment of anti-lynching |
legislation for many years. It was
a senate filbuster that prevented
the passage of this bill in 1937.
"Mr. Garner gave the filibuster
at that time considerable ald. Hel
has always been against anti-
lynching legislation. But now that
he is a candidate for the Demo-
cratic nomination for president,
any change in his views means
that he has stulified his conscience
and betrayed the best interest of
the south for political expediency.
1 "Of course Mr. Garner knows
that the anti-lynching measure
will again be blocked in the sen-
ate even without his opposition,
but the fact that he is playing
politics in this vicious game of
attempting to cast a mantle´ of
shame over the south in order
to gain Negro votes in the north
and east, drops Jack Garner many,
many degrees from the high es-
teem in which southern people
have held him.
"The people of the south need
no federal coercion to extirpate
lynching. The record shows that
they have virtually accomplished
this during the past few years.
Local government must remain
the supreme authority for law en-
forcement in the south.”
