EDITORIAL
America's Fifth Lynching Fifth Lynching
America's fifth lynching for 1939 has just come to light
with the revelation that a Mississippt Negro was tortured to
death with hot irons for the crimes of refusing to pay for a
company owned shack which he did not occupy.
The remarkable thing about this lynching is that it was
(how reported by any of the large press associations which
pride themselves on garnering all of the news.
Had they done so there is no doubt that the innocent
worker's attempt to stand up for his rights would have been
garbled and he would have been reported as having insulted
a white woman, that despite the fact that he was a deacon
in his church and obviously a law abiding citizen.
Hard on the heels of this lynching comes news that the
Florid brothers who lynched another Negro because of a
traffic accident have been freed.
Case hardened Americans will pay little attention to these
murders; they are hardly news.
Meanwhile, the anti-lynching bill is again stymied in
senate and congress committees and the N.A.A.C.P. is work-
ing hard to get enough signatures to withdraw the m
from committee.
re
The story is an old one but it is true as it was last year
that only the unified protest of thousands of voters will force
the bill's withdrawal from committee in order that it can
be voted upon by the house and sent to the senate.
Once again the bill will face a senate filibuster and voters
must prepare to urge application of the cloture rule to limit
debate in order to force the bill past an inevitable senate
filibuster.
Opponents of mass murder who belleve that men have a
right to maintain their rights, even when they are colored,
must do much more than they are doing now if they want
to curb lynching.
RACE RACKETEERS
It is significant that most
of the incipient Fascist move-
ments brought to light by the
Moseley revelations have their
roots in the South.
They are legitimate children
of the Ku Klux Klan move-
ment and its myriad offspring.
Southerners who are pro-
moting the new Twentieth
century brand of race baiting
and race hatred with Jews as
their main targets have had
long practice at the art.
Hitler may have taught
them something about the
technique of making race pre-
judice more profitable but
the Deatherages and the Pel-
leys knew that it was a lucra-
live racket long before the
Austrian gangster turned it
into big business.
Negroes who have been the
victims of race hatred and dis-
crimination for so many years
can sympathize with the lat-
est victims of this kind of
racketeering.
