This Week's Guest Editor Says: Week's Guest Editor Says:
The Way of Madness Way of Madness
HE PROTEST of the liberals of America
against the conquest of Ethiopia hrought
from Mussolini a sarcastic suggestion that the
United States would be in a better position to
criticize fascist Italy if Negro citizens were
not lynched by barbaric minds. And Herr Hit-
ler has more than once in interviews favor-
ably compared his racial concepts with the
historie treatment which America, in a large
section of the country, has accorded its Ne-
groes.
The German Fuehrer rightly feels that the
doctrine of Aryan supremacy is not without
approval
in certain democracies, including
America, which profess to be shocked by the
measures that he has taken to make that
doctrine effective. The events in Europe which
recently have stunned the civilized world are
the logical outcome of a philosophy which ex-
alts one race and
and by inference debases all
others. It must be apparent to every intelli-
gent person that such a philosophy, based on
the utter disregard of human personality, will
generate racial and national oppression and
inevitably lead to the proscription of any
group which may be made the scapegoat for
economic or political failure. Yesterday it was
the Jew, today-the Czechs, tomorrow-Heaven
only knows.
Certainly it must
Religious and racial minorities may be the
first object of attack and oppression. But
they will not be the last.
he obvious that identity of color offers no de-
pendable safeguard against attack. It is the
blonde blue-eyed German today who would de-
stroy the blonde blue-eyed Czech.
It is because the consequences of the spread
of the doctrine of racial superiority are so hor-
rible that Hitler has become a world menace.
It is because the democracies of the world
have been indifferent to these implications
that they now face a war which may destroy
orderly government in Europe, if not civiliza-
tion itself.
America. far removed from Europe geographi-
cally, is very close in fact. It can never be
wholly unaffected by what transpires on that
continent. And it is for this reason that pro-
found concern has been felt by many who have
been aware of the subtle growth of Nazi racial
concepts in the United States.
There is evidence that here in America an
acceleration of anti-Semitism through organ-
ized groups is taking place and racial antagon-
isms long thought dormant are coming to life.
The propaganda of these groups has even been
disseminated among Negrocs, some of whom
have unwittingly become the instruments of
those who would destroy the Negro as well as
the Jew. It is, to say the least. unfortunate,
for it reveals a pathetic short-sightedness on
the part of Negroes who should know better.
The Negro press and Negro organizations
have a solenn duty to perform in utilizing
every resources at their command to halt this
brazen attempt to enlist Negro participation
in the spread of a philosophy which would
retard the Negro's progress immeasurably and
ultimately condemn him to re-enslavement.
To great-hearted, liberal. far-seeing Jers the
Negro owes much. But even if not a single
Jew had ever raised his hand in his behalf.
the Negro must of necessity conibat every
appearance of anti-Semitism, every expression
er the doctrine of racial superiority. Any other
course is the very apotheosis of stupidity. Any
other course is suicidal.
OPPORTUNITY MAGAZINE. MAGAZINE.
This guest editorial feature is open to all
readers. regardless of station or training.
The only requisites are clear. concise Eng-
lish and an important message of not more
than 250 words.
The editorial printed above appears in
the October issue of Opportunity Magazine.
official organ of the National Urban
League, 1133 Broadway. Elmer Anderson
Carter is editor of the magazine; Edward
Lawson, managing editor; Marvin B. Ech-
ford, business manager.
