Killings B, Posses' Taking
Place Of Lynchings In SouthB
NEW YORK, Sept. 22-Progressive leaders in the South are becoming "perturbed"
over the method now being used by southern mobs in the lynching of Negroes, according
to a recent article appearing in The Indiana Catholic and Record, a Catholic newspaper
published in Indianapolis, Ind.
This device pernilts mobs to
snatch their victims before they are
taken into custody, set themselves
up as a posse. lynch their prey and
then declare that the victim was
"killed while resisting arest." The
complete text of the article, which
carried à Greenwood, Miss. date
line follows.
"Anti-lynching leaders in the
South are perturbed over the de-
velopment of the ‘killed while re-
sisting arrest technique which.
they declare, is now being used
as a means of avoiding the stig-
ma of lynching.
"According to this technique, the
mob claims its victim before he
has been taken into official custo-
dy by officers. The mob, with or
without the approval of local offi-
cers, declares itself a posse and
the victim is officially listed as
having been killed while resisting
arrest."
"Two such deaths within
month have been recorded in àfis-
sissippi, the first, on July 6, taking
place at Rolling Fork, and the
second, on July 21, at Canton,
where Claude Banks, a Negro, was
fired upon by a mob of 50 men
seeking the assailant of a white
man named O. D. McAdams who
was stabbed and robbed.
"A third killed while resisting
arrest' death teak place during
the winter in Coahoms County,
Miss. It is believed that several
additional similar deaths have
occurred within reent months
which were not revealed to the
public.
"While this technique is an old
one it is considered new in that
in recent months it has for the
first time been adopted as a substi-
tute for mob murder which would
come under the ban of the various
anti-lynch bills. At the time of the
killing in Coahoma County, &
prominent Mississippi editor, Hod-
ding Carter of the 'Delta Weekly,'
Greenville, published an editorial
suggesting that the type of killing
thus used would become common
if the anti-lynch bill is passed."
