THE WRECKING CREW CREW WRECKING
blow aimed at the anti- lynch bill by the
of the reactionary forces "to block action on
everything else until the measure (anti-lynch
bill) is withdrawn or laid aside" confirms this
conclusion,
It is evident that such a threat places in jeo-
pardy the rights of millions of whites as well as
blacks. It also demands as the price of action
on other legislations no interference with the
institution of lynch murder. The murderers of
thousands of innocent black men, women and
children are resorting to blackmail in order to
retain their bloody prerogatives. The members
of the Race must forever remain outside the
pale of American democracy if these lynchers
are to play ball.
The granting of the right to exclude the
blacks today from their democratic and con-
stitutionally guaranteed rights only establishes
the precedent to be used tomorrow for justifying
the denial of democratic rights and civil liber-
ties to other categories of Americans. This is a
natural sequence and the road followed by his-
tory.
♥
The economic royalists become such through
the process of excluding first one and then an-
other group from the rights appropriated to
themselves. This is the road to monopoly.
The realization of the true principles of demo-
cracy for the people demands unity of the peo-
ple. Such a process will be realized only after
the sharpest struggles. The defiance of the
decisions of the National Labor Relations Board
is but one factual proof of this.
The attack upon the effort of the federal gov-
ernment to curb lynching is an attempt to split
the growing unity of the American people. A
split means certain defeat. We must have unity,
more unity, from democratic whites and blacks.
That part of white America which is the victim
of rapacious monopoly, the undernourished, the
unemployed, those whom relief has not reached,
those it has reached and then repudiated, those
among the intellectuals and liberals who daily
see inroads made upon their rights are vitally
interested in the passage of the anti-lynch bill.
International Fascism is vitally interested in its
defeat. Hitler a year ago expressed his approval
of this American institution of murder.
The smashing of the unity of the American
people around the domestic program means the
defeat of the program for international peace.
The one is inseparably related to the other.
Without unity neither can be realized. America
will play a decisive role in world politics. A
positive role means the defeat of Fascism. The
Southern Bourbons are aware of the far-reach-
ing significance of the federal anti-lynching bill,
The American people must be made aware of
their far-reaching aims. If the bill is defeated
now, it must be brought forward again just as
the wages and hours bill must be renewed. Its
passage in the near future must be assured.
A mass movement must be developed to as-
sure its passage. This is a fight which must be
won. It is a fight for unity, a fight for demo-
cracy and progress, a fight for peace and free-
dom. The weakness in the fight heretofore has
been in the failure to involve the masses.
