LYNCHING-PLAIN TALK TALK PLAIN-
Memphis, Tenn. (Commercial Appeal) Thursday, April 15, 1937 15 1937, April Thursday, Appeal) Commercial Tenn.(,
The torture lynching of two Negroes at Duck Hill, Miss., is an un-
speakable crime. Lynching at law is murder. But mob murder is often
more than murder, it represents a relapse into a psychic state that it is
an insult to primitive man to call savagery.
Every responsible official of Mississippi is put on the spot by inis
crime. It must be investigated and followed by the indictment and
prosecution of the offenders, or the state will suffer a terrific loss of
face. Coming on the heels of steady decline in the number of lynch-
ings, the crime at Duck Hill is a crime against the whole South.
The tendency of mobs to revert to torture and sadistic orgy is age-old
and world-wide. In "The Crowd," Gustave Le Bon more than a genera-
tion ago explained that in a mob the individual intellect and individual-
ity is dormant, superseded for the time being by the collective mob
mind, which represents the lowest common denominator of human
mentality.
Such a relapse evidently occurred at Duck Hill, where the use of a
blow torch in torture rivaled the barbaric mutilations in the massacre
of nonunion miners at Herrin, Ill., a few years ago. The blow torch as
an instrument of torture has not yet been adopted by the degenerate
gangsters of New York, who still prefer slowly to hack their victims
with cold steel. Burning with cigar butts used to be a routine incident
of being "taken for a ride" in the environs of Chicago, but the blow
torch seems to be something new in sadistic technology.
*
Coming at a time when anti-lynching bills are up in Congress, the
Duck Hill lynching may tip the balance and lead to the enactment of
an anti-lynching law, despite the fact that the circumstances of the
Duck Hill lynching prove the impotence of such laws to prevent lynch-
ing. The theory of anti-lynching laws is twofold. Pecuniary penalties
imposed on communities for lynchings are supposed to restrain the
lynching urge. But what would a consideration like that have amounted
in the case of the infuriated mob at Duck Hill. The other part of
the theory of anti-lynching laws is that by transferring the investiga-
lion cf lynchings and the trial of offenders to outside tribunals such as
federal courts, punishment can be had regardless of local public opinion
or political pull. History is emphatic as to the fallacy of that. So far as
the South is concerned, lynching got its greatest impetus at a time when
military rule and federal force laws were in full flower, and in the
nineties of the last century when the Lodge force bill was being pressed
in Congress, lynching was rampant. In northern states where there are
laws providing for the recovery of damages from counties and local
communities by relatives of mob victims, there have been most atro-
cious mob murders.
Sincere purpose to abate lynchings is almost entirely absent from the
present propaganda for a federal anti-lynching law. Back of that move-
ment-as every literate adult knows-are four elements.
(1) The remnant of the old Republican party machine seeking des-
perately to recover the Negro vote in the northern states through which
it ruled the nation from the election of 1868, in which that vote first
swung the balance.
(2) The Democratic political machines in big cities bidding against
the G. O. P. for the same bloc vote.
(3) The Communist groups who have sought for more than 15 years
to stir up racial strife North and South.
(4) The strangely assorted groups of psychopaths who take a morbid
interest in lynchings and in characteristic crimes that lead to lynchings.
These groups include many queer fish and epicene neurotics who swim
in the stagnant social pools which have collected back of some of the
great foundations and other endowments set up by doddering old men
and women who had more money than sense.
The latter elements are not motivated at all by any desire to abate
lynchings. The heavily financed propaganda against the social order of
the South which was manifested in the Scottsboro case in Alabama and
in the Herndon case in Atlanta are a dead giveaway as to that. An
orderly court trial in the South stirs up the degenerate martyr com-
plexes of these people as much as a lynching.
In view of the South baiting that accompanies all the agitation for
federal anti-lynching laws, it is incumbent upon southern senators and
representatives to make these facts clear upon the floors of the Houses
of Congress, and to demand that any extension of federal police powers
be made to cover the gang mobster of the city as well as the rural mob.
