Catholics And The Anti-Lynching Bill Anti- The And
From the Interracial Review, September 1936 1936 September Review, Interracial the
In our leading editorial in the July issue of the Interracial
Review we cited the first revelations of the infamous activities
of the Black Legion and pointed out that lynching and other mob
nutrages must be eradicated from American life. Last month we
cited the killing of Charles Poole, the Catholic, by the same organi-
zation and pointed out that this crime had its origin in the hor-
rible example of the lynching of Negroes with impunity. In
groups, Cath-
sembocized that all minority
DOWN cuntur k6415
i̇·lics, Negroes and Jews should be foremost in the fight to
eradicate mob violence of every description.
Comes now additional evidence to substantiate our previ-
ous contention. Last week the entire nation was shocked by the
spectacle of 15,000 people gathered from many miles to witness
the public hanging of a Negro murderer in Owensboro, Ken-
tucky. Here, the hanging of a human being took on all the color
ei a public sports event amidst the clamor of hot-dog and soda-
pop vendors. This spectacle was of the same stuff that motivates
mob murder and lynching. How far removed are the impulses that
prompted the gathering of this vast cadaverous crowd, from
those which drew thousands to witness the spectacle of early
Christians being thrown to the lions in pagan Rome, it is not dif-
ficult to estimate.
Certain it is that the stimulus and example of unpunished
lynching is responsible for all the grim happenings of the last few
months..
In regard to the Catholic contribution to the solution of these
probleme, we have been immeasurably encouraged by the out-
standingly forthright editorial of last week's America, which we
reprint in this issue, as well as by the increasing support of the
Catholic press in general. The interest of the Catholic press is
most gratifying in view of the sentiments expressed on another
page by Walter White to the effect that herein is a distinct op-
portunity for public service on the part of the Catholics of
America.
The Interracial Review can sum up its present position in
no better way than by calling upon the Catholic leaders of America
to redouble their efforts in arousing popular Catholic sentimem in
support of the exactment of an adequate Federal anti-lynching
bill by the next Congress. Again the Catholic Press has pointed
the way and there is now every reason why Catholic organizations
mandate whole-
and Catholic leaders should accept this new
heartedly.
▼
