The Louisburg Lynching Louisburg Lynching
BY REV. D. F. MARTINEZ
(An Editorial)REV
WITH the inhuman lynching of Govan (Sweat) Ward,
25 year old Negro, whose body was found hanging from a
scrub oak tree, riddled with bullets about 10 miles north-
west of Louisburg, near the tiny resort known as Lakeview
in Franklin County, Tuesday, July 30th. North Carolina is
now a full fledged member of the 1935 Lynching Parade.
Truly we must admit that maniacs and crazy indivi-
duals running amuck, killing and attempting to kill innno-
rent people, whites or Negroes, are better off dead or incar-
zerated more especially when we think of the heinious and
regrettable crime committed by Ward before the lynching.
the brutal slaying of C. G. Stokes, a white farmer of Frank-
lin county, who endeavored to protect other persons, appar-
ent victims of Ward's insanity and beastly ferocious attacks.
But knowing that Ward, was himself a victim of morbid
insanity admitted to by the authorities and people of Frank-
in county, we regret that no other course than lynching
could have been taken.
We note with praise and admiration the stand taken
by the Governor, (Chief Executive) of the state who at-
tempted, according to press releases, his best effort to pre-
vent the shameful blot of inhuman cannibalism (Lynching)
from besmirching the fair name of his great state. by or-
dering national guards, and every available state highway
patrol to proceed to the scene and prevent the lynching, in
frenzied effort to stop a lawless mob from killing a helpless
little Negro morbid-maniac victim of insanity under arrest
and in the custody of the law, only to find that a mob of
citizens who entrusted him with the manning of the affairs
of state and the enforcement of its laws, had defied reason,
foiled his plans and wrecked his hope to save the fair name
of the state from inhuman Criminal history of lynching ar
admittedly CRAZY MEDIUM-SIZED GINGER CAKE
NEGRO" as Ward was called.
It is reasonable to presunie, that the few Negro citizens
who aided in the capture by over-powering Ward, while he
was running amuck and held him for the law, felt that af-
ter delivering the insane man, to the Deputy Sheriff, he was
safe in their care and custody as law defenders and enforc-
ers, and was no longer a dangerous maniac at large run-
ming amuck, and expected that Ward, would be so protected
and properly dealt with according to state laws dealing with
insane persons. Instead, an infuriated mob of unthoughtful
and irresponsible citizens could be satisfied with nothing less
than brutal lawlessness in killing Ward, as one would a rabid
dog, by lynching a helpless morbid-maniac of insanity in the
“very custody of the law.
-From The New Bern (N. C.) World The New Bern( N. C.) World
