"Negroes And Whites Join In Lynch Party" Lynch Party" Whites Join In Negroes And
THIS mare heading has served to introduce North Carolina's
latest lynching of a Negro which occurred about July 30th at Louis-
burg, N. C. 'Sweat' Ward, described as a demented person was
the unfortunate victim.
North Carolina of late years has struggled to redeem herself
That state has by far excelled her southern sisters in good roads,
schools and racial tolerance. Being the home state of the power-
ful Dukes and Reynolds of tobacco fame and millions, North Ca-
rolina has been one southern state credited with paying more in
the government treasury in taxes than it is taking out.. That state
received some unwholesome advertising in the disclosure of in-
human treatment accorded prisoners at the Mecklenberg camp. To
inflate that disgrace, the jurors refused to convict those responsible
according to allegations, for the freezing of the feet of Shropshire
and Barnes while confined in solitary cells.
Coming closely on the heels of this unfortunate orgy, the
lynching of Sweat serves to keep North Carolina in the unfavor-
able spotlight.
It is interesting to note the tendency in lynching reports to
link Negrocs with the disgraceful affair. It has been vigorously
denied by race leaders and other authorities that Negroes had any-
thing to do with the lynching. If they did, those acquainted with
the state under which Negroes live in the rural communities can
readily understand how a class of irresponsible Negroes can be
easily intimidated into lawless affairs by their white bosses.
It is unique in that, in order to give euphony to a lynching, in-
volve Negroes in it.
The world knows the record of the Negro as a law abiding
citizen. It knows him as a petty offender and as guilty of an oc-
iasional murder ameng his own people. He sometimes takes the
law in his own hands as a result of his suspicion of the courts and
their written record in not trying Negro cases according to “Hoyle.
The Negro also knows that it is hard to convict a race member for
the killing of another member of the race. These flaws, directly
due to the faults in the administration of the laws of the land oc-
casion the Negro to commit full: 95 per cent of his crimes.
It is known that Senator Joseph W. Bailey of North Carolina
was one of the leaders in the filibuster against the Costigan-Wag-
ner bill to curb lynching by making it a federal offense.
The good offices of this country have been terribly handicapped
in its effort to restore world peace and to intervene when nations
inculged in the pastime of persecuting their own subjects. It has
on more than one occasion been told to sweep from before its own
doors.
The Negro may be a petty offender, but he is not a lyncher
His sympathies, his responses to human misery and suffering in the
past have tempered him into such a being that would not include
lynching in his category of crimes.
When insult is to be added to injury, it sometimes takes strange
phases.
North Carolina has again heen ontraged. In spite of its bril.
liant record of the past, it is daily contending that it is an unsafe
place in which to live.
It cannot justify itself even in the attempt to tell the world
that Negroes participated in the mai frenry that loosted its stock
in the columns of those states that have been set aside as the
lynching states of America.
!
