Boy Who Escaped From Marion, Indiana
Lynching Mob Is Given Short Prison Term
N.A.A.C.P. ATTORNEYS
SAVE DEFENDANT FROM
THE ELECTRIC CHAIR
Lawyers, In Constant Danger During Trial, Were Guarded
By Sheriff's Deputies Mrs. Bailey's Work In Case.
Outstanding-Verdict Seen As Legal Victory.
MARION, Ind., July 23-Herbert Cameron, 14-year-old
Negro who narrowly escaped lynching here last August, has
escaped the electric chair, from which it seemed at one time
almost impossible to save him, when a jury found him guilty
of accessory before the fact of voluntary manslaughter, which
carries with it a penalty of two to twenty-one years. As Cam-
eron is a minor, his case comes
within the special Indiana law gov-|
erning such cases which reduce the
sentence to one year.
Thus ends one of the most widely
discussed cases of recent years and
a second time Cameron has been
snatched from the jaws of death.
On Aug. 7 last a mob broke into
the Grant County Jall here and
seized Tom Shipp, Abe Smith and
Herbert Cameron, who were charged
with the murder of a white man and
criminal assault upon his woman
companion. The mob lynched Shipp
and Smith, but through the inter-
cession of a white man who knew
him Cameron was returned to the
jail.
.
Investigation by the N. A. A. C.`P.
through its Marion branch and the
national office disclosed gross negli-
gence on the part of the prison of-
ficers, and the names of 27 members
of the lynching mob were disclosed
by the N. A. A. C. P. When the
grand jury refused to indict, Attor-
ney General James M. Ogden, of In-
diana, by virtue of authority given
him by the Indianą state law against.
lynching, caused the arrest of per-
sons suspected of being ringleaders
of the mob: Though the defendants
were acquitted, the widespread pub.
licity given to the case through the
efforts of the N. A. A. C. P. resulted
in passage by the Indiana state legis-
lature of a more stringent law
against lynching.
After various delays Cameron was
placed on trial, charged with mur-
der. The prosecuting attorney vig-
orously sought the death sentence
for the youthful' defendant. Attor-
neys Robert L. Brokenburr and R. L.
Bailey, of Indianapolis, were retained
by the Marlon branch to defend
Cameron, and these attorneys put
up a magnificent fight to save the
boy from the electric chair. It is
the feeling here that the short term
given Cameron is a great moral vic-
ory and that he will be shortly
freed.
. Mrs. F. Katherine Bailey, prest-
ient of the Marion branch of the
N. A. A. C. P., and of the Indiana
state conference of N. A. . C. P.
branches, was awarded the Madame
2. J. Walker medal at the recent
wenty-second annual conference of
he N'A. A. C. P. at Pittsburgh be-
cause of her services in these cases.
Mrs. Bailey writes to the national
office that Attorneys Brokenburr
ind Bailey were in constant danger
lurthg Cameron's trial and had to
e guarded every minute in
courtroom by the sheriffs deputies.
Cameron's trial lasted eight days and
v83 a bifterly fought struggle
hroughout.
the
