Other Papers Say- Papers Say
LYNCHING AS A PUBLIC SPECTACLE PUBLIC SPECTACLE AS A
(From the Birmingham News-Age-Herald) From the Birmingham News- Age- Herald)
The lynching Friday night near Marianna,
Fla., was a particularly deliberate-one might
even say leisurely-affair. Unlike most lynch-
ings, it was not a quick and furtive deed of
mob violence. The lynchers took their time.
Nor was this the only respect in which this
lynching was exceptional; the mob worked
amazingly in the open. The events accompany-
ing the crime took place in the full gaze of
the public, and with the knowledge of the offi-
cers of the law.
It was turned into a public spectacle, with
literally thousands of persons on hand to wit-
ness the killing of a human being, and with
specch-making and "entertainment" for the
crowd while it waited. In the end, the crowd
was deprived of seeing the actual killing, when
a group of the mob members took the victim
to another spot than that at which it was ad-
vertised the lynching would take place. "Ad-
vertised" is the right word, for as early as
noon Friday messengers of the mob began
spreading the word for "all white folks" in
the surrounding section to attend the slaying.
But if the crowd missed out on the killing
itself, it was at least privileged to view the
body, torn by bullets and slit by knives, as it
dangled from the limb of a tree on the court-
house square at Marianna. It was a public
spectacle, all right, from beginning to end,
except for the mere incident of the actual
putting to death of a Negro who surely would
have been executed legally if the law had been
permitted to take its course.
The lynching was rather exceptional also
in that it was done with particularly revolting
brutality. Any lynching is hideous; but this
one was particularly hideous.
The circumstance which is most interesting,
however, is the deliberateness with which the
mob proceeded. Evening newspapers of Friday
told how the mob from Florida early that
morning had taken the Negro from jail at
Brewton, Ala., where he had been sent for
safekeeping. Morning papers of Saturday told
how the mob had announced the plans for the
lynching, and how the crowd was waiting for
the event. It remained for the evening news-
papers of Saturday to report that the lynching
had taken place late Friday night.
In all that time, from early morning till late
Friday night, the Negro was in the hands of
the mob-and officers of the law of two states
knew it, yet they did nothing about it. The
sheriff of Jackson county, Florida, knew it;
Governor Dave Sholtz of Florida knew it. The
governor did offer to send National Guard
troops if the sheriff thought they were needed.
The sheriff did not ask for the troops, but
Governor Sholtz should have sent them any-
way, in view of the large crowd that had
gathered.
