A Lynching As A Public Spectacle Lynching As A Public Spectacle
The lynching Friday night near Mariauna, Fla.. was a par-
ticularly deliberatene might even say leisurely-affair. Un-
like most lynchings, it was not a quick and furtive deed of mob
violence. The 'ynchers took their time. Nor was this the only
respect in which this lynching was exceptional; the mob worked
amazingly in the open. The events accompanying the crime took
place in the full gaze of the public, and with the knowledge of
the officers of the law.
It was turned into a public spectacle, with literally thousands
of persons on hand to witness the killing of a human being, and
with speech-making and entertainment" for the crowd while it
waited. In the end, the crowd was deprived of seeing the actual
killing, when a group of the mob members took the victim to
another spot than that at which it was advertised the lynching
would take place. ldvertised is the right word, for as early as
10on Friday messengers of the mob began spreading the word
for "all white folks" in the surrounding section to attend the
siaying. But if the crowd missed out on the killing itself, it was
at least privileged to view the body, torn by bullets and slit by
knives, as it dangled from the limb of a tree on the courthouse
square at Marianna. It was a public spectacle, all right from
beginning to end, except for the mere incident of the actual put-
ting to death of a Negro who surely would have been executed
legally if the law had been permitted to take its course.
The lyneliing was rather exceptional also in that it was done
with particularly revolting brutality. Any lynching is hideous:
but this one was peculiarly hideous.
The circumstance which is most interesting. however, is the
deliberateness with which the moi proceeded. Evening newspap-
ers of Friday told how the mob from Florida carly that morning
had taken the Negro from jail at Brewton, Ala., where he had
been sent for safekeeping. Morning papers of Saturday told how
the moh had announced the plans for the lynching, and how the
crowd was waiting for the event. It remained for the evening
newspapers of Saturday to report that the lynching had taken
place late Friday night.
In all that time, from early morning till late Friday night.
the Negro was in the hands of the nuh-the officers of the law
of two states knew it, yet they did nothing about it. The serifi
of Jackson County, Florida, knew it: Gov. Dave Sholtz of
Florida knew it. The governor dið offer to send National Guard
troops if the sheriff thought they were needed. The sheriff did not
ask for the troops, but Gov. Sholtz should have sent them any-
way, in view of the large crowd that had gathered. The governor
and the sherifi bodr-should have known that the latter could not
preserve order unaided in such a situation. And so leisurely did
the mob act, there should have been ample time for the law to
assert itself.
The lynching took place in Florida, and was committeed by
a Florida mob. Bu Alabama is not without its share of the
blame. The sheriff of Escambia County in this state and the jail-
er at Brewton should have taken adequate precautions to safe-
guard the prisoner placed in their care. The mob should never
have been allowed to take him. It would seem that Gov. Miller
has cause to investigate the Alabama angle of the affair. And
surely Gov. Sholtz, even though he failed in his manifest duty
to send troops, will conduct a sweepiug, investigation into the
lynching and all the attendant circumstances.
From The Birmingham News. The Birmingham News.
