Mr.
success. in most presi-
ONE
NE of the secrets of Republican
dential elections is that party's ability to out-think the
Democrats at crucial moments. President Hoover has
started already on the wily way.
The Democrats and the dripping Wets throughout the
nation had something concrete to work against in the Pro-
hibition plank laid at the Republican convention in Chica-
go. They took 'advantage of its weakness to the fullest.
"The G. O. P. heard and waited. So when Hoover accepted
the nomination not quite two weeks ago, he changed his
party ideals to the kind of stand which has already recap-
tured powerful and defecting Wet Republicans, while still
not giving offense to sane Drys. His enemies have found
little tangible to ridicule.
In 1928 the Republicans banked upon prosperity as
their chief asset. Since then, it has flown. It wouldn't
help the cause of the Grand Old Party to have breadlines
next door to the voting places this fall. Of late there has
been a definite pickup and change for the better in busi-
ness conditions. There have been conferences of govern-
ment officials with the millionaires of Wall Street. Just
what part politics is playing in the business revival is not
definitely known. But the fact is if, in November, con-
ditions are still reviving, it will mean more votes for the
Republicans..
Both the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and the
new Federal Home Loan Board, Republican offspring, are
playing their parts at the crucial moment. Big business
has been helped and now the small landowner, both black
and white, who does not control millions but who also has
the same number of votes as John D. Rockefeller, will get
government aid. Of course it means praise for the ad-
ministration, which is Republican. And now comes the
appointment of a St. Louis doctor to the R. F. C., which
soft soaps many members of the Negro race.
If Mr. Roosevelt and his political cronies can out-smart
Mr. Hoover and his friends between now and election,
they'll have to step..
CHANGING ATTITUDE
There may be an element of perverted conscience in
the white man's violent anxiety to protect female purity.
His own crimes against colored women may have given
him an unholy sensitiveness. During slavery the colored
girl was defenceless in the presence of her white master
and his friends, and even in our doy the Negro girl is all
but helpless before the advances of white men the more
primitive plantations and villages. The shooting of a
white man, who was forcing his way into a colored home
in Tennessee, led to the lynching of the Negro who had
been defending himself and his wife. Even in New York
the race riots of 1900 started by the killing of a white man
from whom a Negro was attempting to rescue his wife.
On the other hand, within recent months in New Orleans
a white man was convicted and punished for attacking a
colored girl. The attention which this conviction received
in the southern press indicates how unusual the outcome
was and suggests an encouraging change of attitude.
From "Brown America," by Edwin Embree, page 218,
published by the Viking Press, New York, 1931.
