MURDER IN MISSISSIPPI
Again has the frequently besmirched name of Mississipppi
been plunged into the muck of barbarism and savagery. With
the lynching of to Negroes near Alligator, in Bolivar county,
Friday, Mississippi again indicates that its respect for law and
order is nil.
The victims of mob murder were charged with having at-
tempted an attack on a white woman. This may or may not
have been true. The circumstances were such as to have cast
doubt that there had been an attempted attack. That may come
out later.
But it is a fact that the mob took the two Negroes from
three arred officers without a struggle. There broke down the
law. The officers had no interest, no will in stopping that mob
or it would have been stopped.
For a contrast, Sheriff Newbhill of Dyer county, Tenn.,
heard rumors that a mob was forming to lynch two white pris-
oners accused of a really grave offense this week. Sheriff
Newbill of Tennessee did not wait to find out even if the rumor
were true. He took his prisoners in a fast car and brought
them to Memphis to the Shelby county jail. No lynching took
place. It is reasonable to believe that Sheriff Newbill would
have taken the same course had his prisoners been Negrocs. And
it also seems quite likely that Sherifi Newbill would not have
surrendered any prisoner to a mob without a fight.
As a result of the conduct of this courageous and dutiful
officer, Tennessee's escutcheon is unmarked, where it could
have casily been fouled for all the world to see and shulder at.
It is a well and generally known fact that almost any sort
of resistance on the part of peace officers will ſoil a moh, which
is innately cowardly Any display of determination, as has
been proved time and again by men of courage, will disperse a
mob, however blood-thirsty it may seem at the time
Hence it is a natural assumption that when a peace officer
allows himself to be disarmed by a mob and his prisoner taken
from him without any struggle, that either one of two things is |
true: The first is that the officer is an arrant coward, and the
second that he just doesn't give a damn.
There should be a national law concerning lynchings-a
law which would punish every peace officer in the county in
which a lynching took place, and also render that county sub-
ject to a heavy Federal penalty for allowing it. President
Roosevelt, humanitarian that he is, should foster such a law,
for only with such sure protection can this nation ever emerge
from the lawlessness which grips it now.
Mobs are no respectors of persons. Race means nothing
to a moh, if it is allowed to have its way. Our courts, our laws.
the very machinery of our civilization breaks down horribly
every time there is a lynching, and all the soft talk about the
chastity of the white women cannot alter this one iota. Few
people feel that a rapist should not be punished by death, for
rape is a heinous offense. But we have laws and we have
courts, and we are, allegedly, a civilized people. Whenever we
condone the work of an irresponsible inob which, after its
formation secks blood-anybody's blood-then we take a hun-
dred, nay a thousand, steps backward in the progress of a sup-
posedly enlightened and cultured people.
Let us have laws which will, for all time, stop this horrid
effense against human decency, and against law and order
There is talk of a law which will make the sheriff of any county
in Tennessee lose his job automatically once a lynching takes
place in his territory. Pray God that such a law may be passed
in this State and in every state in the Union, for there are few
peace officers who would not fight a mob to retain their jobs-
and if mobs are fought, they are defeated.
Shelby county believes in the orderly processes of the law,
Sheby county is the home of the proposed law cited above.
Shelby county citizens should be glad that they live in a district
where respect for the law is high. They should rejoice that they
do not live in Bolivar county, Mississippi, where there is no such
respect And they should foster in every way possible laws
that will make lynching a real crime, punishable by law, rather
than a sport in which a gang of drunken hoodlums engage with-
out fear in the hilarious pastime of murder.
-From The Memphis World The Memphis World
