CS
False Story By White Girl
In So. Orange Stirs Town
Charged Imaginary Crime to Negro and Placed in
Jeopardy Many Innocent Men--Embarrassing
End to Search When She Confesses
(Special to THE NEW YORK AGE) 1922
South Orange, N. J.-The mendacity of a twelve-year-old white
girl, one Zaeda Ach, daughter of a New York architect, (the tele-
phone directory shows David M. Ach, of 5 Center street, South
Orange, with office at 1 Madison avenue, New York City), jeopar-
dized the liberty and well-being of any slightly built Negro who
might have been wearing a brown suit and tan shoes on the street
of South Orange, during a period of several days. This was be-
cause she told a most circumstantial tale of how she had been
threatened with a revolver, bound, gagged and assaulted in her
mother's room by a colored man, while her younger sister and
an older woman were in another room in the house.
The girl's story aroused the community, for she was definite
to the last degree in her story, and described in fullest detail the
appearance of the assailant-who she declared to be slightly built
wearing a felt hat, brown suit, green mackinaw and tan shoes
and even told of a crack in the leather of his shoe near the right toe
Every Negro seen on the streets of South Orange became an
object of suspicion, and this feeling extended to every town within
a radius of twenty miles. Feeling was at high tension and police
officers were strenuous in their search for the alleged miscreant.
Then came embarrassment for the officials and the girl's family.
The girl became conscious stricken and lost her nerve. She
told the truth. She declared that she had invented the whole tale
her story was that she had entered her mother's room in search of
a book and had been confronted by the robber, who proceeded to
do the things she had charged against her imaginary creation.
There has been no satisfactory explanation as to why the girl
made up so serious a charge against a member of the race, but
the most charitable have it that her imagination has become in-
famed by attendance on the modern movie thrillers.
