1934
T
¡HE FATHER of a 16-year-old Mississippi
school girl was promised the privilege of hang-
ing the three colored men accused of raping
his daughter, if he would use his influence to pre-
vent the mob from lynching the men.¡
...
The Mississippi Senate passed a special law to
permit the father to kill the three men after their
conviction by the court. The House of Represen-
tatives killed the bill in Committee,
The question comes, how did the authorities
know before the trial that the three accused men
would be found guilty? If guilt is to be established
before trial, why have trial?
But, imagine a State Senate enacting a law so
that a citizen might have the privilege of killing
three other citizens.
It is difficult to understand how a civilized
person could receive personal satisfaction from kill-
ing three human beings either with or without the
sanction of the law. But evidently Mississippi is
not civilized.
·
In spite of the fact that the House stopped the
barbaric legislation which would have given the
father the right to spring the trap which would
send three of his fellows to their doom Mississippi
had its fun.
Here is an unprejudiced report of what hap-
pened: The sheriff sprang the trap. Issac Howard
plunged through the floor. Said the sheriff: "That
bastard won't bother you any more." Said father
of the girl, "Hell no."
In the hall below where the body fell someone
said: "That's Isaac Howard." Said another, "You
mean that was Isaac Howard."
ed.
The crowd laugh-
Fifteen minutes.
Isaac Howard dead.
later the doctor pronounced
Another spiritual began above,
another body plunged through the trap. A dozen
young girls who had come to visit the spectacle
Fickled. "Look how long his neck is," one ex-
claimed. "That's because it is broken.' explained
an officer. Again the girls giggled. The doctor
ordered quiet so that he could listen for heart beats.
with his stethoscope. Fourteen minutes later he
was still hearing them.
"Aw hell." someone
yelled, "knock him on the
head with a hammer." An officer patting his six-
shooter: "I know a faster way than that."
Thus the spectacle went on for over an hour
until all three were hanged and dead.
While the dirt was shoveled in on the dead
bodies members of the crowd chanted, "I'm Headin'
for the Last Round Up," "I Will be Glad When you
are Dead, You Rascal You", and "Bye, Bye Black-
birds.
For this Christ died. From pulpits through-
out America during this Easter season lip service
will be rendered to the Christ. But even as you
do it unto the least of these so do you unto Me.
