Lonely in the Multitude Multitude the in
; By KELLY MILLER MILLER By KELLY
0%
NE evening about dusk a boy, in his middle teens, ac-
costed me to inquire where he could find a colored settle-
ment. This was in a section of Washington where col-
ored people are not permitted to live under existing covenants.
On inquiry I found that this dusky vagabond had hoboed his
way from Lynchburg, Va., in quest of northern al-
Jurements. He wore two sults of clothes, which.
together with an extra pair of shoes strapped
over his shoulder, constituted his wardrobe.
At once I sensed his situation and pointed him
to the Salvation Army for a night's lodging. As I
was going in the same direction, I accompanied
him on the street car, after paying his fare. Dur-
ing the fifteen minutes' ride I gathered his whole
life story and turned him over to the tender
mercies of the Salvation Army.
I cannot now say whether it was my raw
human goodness or the recollection of my own
similar predicament some years ago that made
me so quickly responsive to his appeal. It happened in this wise:
I had just lectured in Springfield, Ill., and had boarded, as I thought.
a train for Cincinnati, Ohio, where I was booked for the high school
commencement address the next evening. An attendant had directed me
to the wrong train. When I handed the conductor my ticket, he hastily
scanned it and queried about my destination. On informing him that I
was bound for Cincinnati I was advised that the train was moving in the
opposite direction as fast as the wheels would roll. The conductor kindly
suggested that he would inquire at the next stop about a taxi by which I
might return to Springfield. The rate was $15. I was not in funds to
meet the demands of the robber.
THE TRAIN MASTER then advised that he would carry me to the next
town-Pleasant Plains, Sangamon County, sacred to Abraham Lincoln
-where I might stay over night and catch the same train the next
morning in time for my Cincinnati engagement. I arrived at this sleepy
town about 8 o'clock, and diligently looked all around, but there was no
colored face in sight. I was painfully aware that there were toans in
Abraham Lincoln's old state where the sun is not allowed to set on a
Negro's head.
Darkness was fast covering the town with the mantle of night.
looked around and saw opposite the depot what looked like a rustic hotel
and started in that direction when the lights were suddenly blown out for
the night. I then returned to the station and listened for the moment to
the depot crowd indulging in about the same grade of talk as prevailed in
Lincoln's day. I en put my psychology to work. In the language of
Robert Burns, I "tint my reason a' together." and picked out a man of
benevolent face I judged would be responsive to a human appeal.
"Sir, I am a stranger in this town, having missed the outgoing train.
Will you tell me where I may find a night's lodging?"
"Certainly." came the immediate response in a kindly tone of voice.
"There is a colored man named Ben up the street who will be glad to
accommodate you." I thanked him profuscly, but had to inquire further
how I could reach Ben's quarters.
O, I'm going right past there and will be glad to show you."
Thereupon hs volunteered to carry my grip and directed me to my
colored host. He stopped at the first house beyond the concrete pavement
and presented me to Ben and his wife and admonished them to take
good care of this gentleman. Having refused the proffer of cigar money,
my guide, philosopher and friend wended his homeward way and left me
there to darkness and to Ben.
THE READER WILL please note
that I said nothing about race or color
in my quest and query about a night's lodging. But my cicerone knew
his Pleasant Plains, a village of 600 white souls and two colored ones. The
white folks were of about the calibre and grade of those who composed the
Scottsboro jury at Decatur, Ala., only their race prejudice was not con-
stantly inflamed by aggravating proximity to a large Negro group.
Race prejudice was rather in the passive than the active voice. The
avowed attitude was benevolent and kindly. During the ten minutes' walk
to Ben's cottage I allowed my volunteer guide to do most of the talking,
injecting only the right word here and there to keep the conversation
moving and to avoid the mutual embarrassment of silence.
"Ben and his wife," I was informed, "are the only colored people in
the neighborhood. They get along all right and we all think a lot of
them. Ben is a tiler and works for the white farmers throughout the
neighborhood. His wife is a good woman, too, and works for the best
families in the town."
To all of which I rejoined: "This is very interesting, indeed." I spent
the night with Ben, but have often wondered what might have been my
predicament had Pleasant Plains not had a single colored resident.
In my next release I shall tell about my conversation with Mr. and
Mrs. Ben, as I judge that such reminiscence might prove as engaging dog-
day diversion as any other form of disquisition.
Kelly Miller. Miller.
