TRENTON
By CATHERINE L. MCCOY
599 N Willow St.
, N. J., Oct. 6.- Judging of
25 Church St.. second: Mrs. William Church St .. second: Mrs. William
Hargett, 27 West End Ave., third, and
John D. Hopkins, 209 Prospect St., re-
ceived honor: le mention. The judging
was done by three men of unquestioned
ability and experience, who contributed
their services. They were Jamex Good-
ier. city gardner: William P. DeWan
and Harold W. West, both horticultur-
ists. Ratings were given on the follow-
ing basis: Grass, 20 points: attractive-
ness, 40, and condition, 40 points,
The judges expressed pleasure at the
development of the various kinds of
gardens and the close competition which
; resulted. They commended especially
the very attractive hedge at the home
of Mrs. Jeanette Simpson of S Mont-
gomery I'l.s the arches over the gates
of Charles H. Wilson of 2 Raritan St.,
Hillery Green of 4 Raritan St., and the
large variety of flowers in the yard of
Mrs. Lena Rinn of 260 Church St.
This contest has been conducted an-
nually by the Colored community branch
of the Trenton Y. M. C. A. since 1929
and this year 45 yards were entered.
The purpose of the contest is to provide
incentives that will induce people to
inake the backyard a more attractive
place. The general public is invited to
view the yards of the winning contest-
ants. The presentation of awards will
be made at a public meeting to be an-
nounced later.
The Misses Susio 1ferring and Edna
McCoy entertained Informally on Fri-
day evening in honor of their birthday
anniversaries at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. Samuel McCoy, 55 Spring St. The
guests enjoyed games annd dancing and
refreshments were served. Those who
attended were Misses Laura Weems,
Velda Franklin. Dorothy Cosby, Myn-
erva Hearns, Marolyn Douglas, Anna
Jacobs, Roza and Julia Van Harler. Vir-
ginia and Anlta Stout, Beatrice Kauf-
man, Gladys Hearns, Bylvene Adger,
Doris Henson, Mildred Greene, Mar-
caret Payne, Shirley Falwell, Frances
Watson, Elaine Williams, Flossie Moore,
Ruth Johnson, Alice Watson, Florence
Kendal, Wheatona Barker, Florence
Lee, Susie Francis, Thelma Sparkes and
Catherine McCoy: Messrs. Calvin. Her-
ring. Lloyd Turner, Roland Daniels,
Clarence Dingman, Henry Bennett. Her-
bert Trippert, Thaddeus Patterson. Paul
Carnegie. Leon Bracey, Joseph Watson,
Lefone Crossland, Benjamin Bradley,
Charles Wooding. Frank Roberts, Car-
lyle Franklin, Herbert Flamer, Edward
Taylor, Addison Titus. William Hill,
Marion Owens, Carl Leftwich, Stanley
Washington, Francis Thacker, lliam
Collins, William Turner, James Wilson,
George Toung and Mr. and Mrs. Nay-
mond Law.
Mrs. Nahtan Hovington Jr. enter-
tained at bridge at her home on Monday
evening. Guests present were Mrs. Os-
wald Bevere, Mrs. George Brown, Mrs.
Wesley Burrell, Mrs. Richard Collins,
Mrs. Gene Chambers. Mrs. Nettle Cole-
man, Mrs. Ettle Haywood and Miss
Beatrice Jackson. A delightful buffet
supper was served. Prizes were awarded
to Mrs. Wesley Burrell and Mrs. Net-
tie Coleman.
The Y. P. F. of St. Monica's Episcopal
church held their monthly social meet-
ing at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Hilmar
L. Jensen, 36 West End Ave., Thursday
evening. Members played various group
games and were served with light re-
freshments.
Church news, lodge and other frat-
ernal news, group and individual ac-
tivities may be sent to this paner at
223 N. Willow St. before 10 o'clock eachi
Saturday morning.
PERTH AMBOY, N. J.
A harvest home program was enjoyed
by the congregation of St. James A. M.
E. Zion church Sunday night. A speak-
ing contest will be held at the Second
Laptist church Oct. 7 sponsored by the
Sunday school of that church. Šilver
Moon Social club met at the home of
Mrs. Mary Kearney Friday night. Mrs.
Sue Hall of Scottland Neck, X. C., is
visiting at the home of her son, Harry
Hall. George Hall, brother of
Hall, Wiley and Mrs. Wiley Hall,
and John Hall, uncle of Harry, all of
New York city were guests at the home
of Harry Hall. Jesse Smith spent the
week-end with friends in Asbury Park.
D. R. C. Social club met at the home of
Mrs. Jack Chavies in Cliffwood Hights
Monday. Jolly Twelve Social held its
meeting at the home Mrs. A. Davis
Monday.
Harry
Wade
