A NEW AWAKENING NEW AWAKENING
From the state of Mississippi comes a press
announcement that thousands of white women
in 460 counties have gone on record to end
mob violence and lynching. This is indeed
welcome news and a hopeful sign that, white
women of the South are tired of the inen of
their own race impugning their good names by
false charges.
Too often have charges of rape in the South
Leen used by the whites to run black men
away from their property and from their iam-
ilies. To those who know and understand
"social" conditions below the Mason and
Dixon line little credence is put in the ordi-
nary charge of rape.
This question of "social equality," about
which we hear so much hue and cry, was in-
troduced by the white man himself, and, as a
matter of fact, he has spread his progeny all
over the nation. That he should speak of
"social equality" is to laugh with derision, as
yearly there are hundreds of cases of actual
rape committed by white men on Race women
in the South that officers of the law will not
cven investigate.
These cases rarely reach the southern news-
papers, and when they do. are generallyshid-
den among the advertisements. Just a few
days ago a white man in Birmingham, Ala.,
was accused of raping a 12-year-old girl. but
the police didn't consider it worthy of an in-
vestigation. Had the racial identity of the
principals been reversed the crime would have
been broadcast to the four corners of this great
“land of the free."
It is a hopeful sign that the white wonien of
the South have awakened to the "social" af-
fairs of their men. Their fight will restore to
some extent the respectability of the South; it
will also serve to protect our Race from lynch-
ing and additional bastardy.
There can be no doubt but that if something
does not happen soon to curb the southern
white man's unbridled "social" proclivities, the
Sonth will be reduced to a race of hali-castes,
neither white nor black. The "social" tend-
encies of the southern white man, as applied
to women of our Race, have been governed by
lust alone.
Had he held himself aloof from the women
of the Race when as slaves they were powerless
to help themselves, there would never have
been any “Race" question. His "social" con-
tact with them began during slavery and
through his descendants continues to this very
day.
As a result of this concubinage on the part
of the southern white man thousands of his
sens and daughters by Race women have
passed over to the race of their illegitimate
fathers. This is in keeping with the biblical
prophecy of Isaiah: "Woc unto them that de-
cree unrighteous decrces and that write griev-
ousness which they have prescribed."
