Bailing Out Murderers Murderers Out
The murderers and lynchers of Hawaii, the
lady admiral and assistants, including a son-in-
law, compelled, it is alleged in some quarters,
to make good, are out on bail. Even preju-
diced American reporters, dispatched to Hono-
Julu to send back the proper stuff for con-
sumption by racial maniacs, have confessed
doubt. upon investigation, that the Massie
woman is all heroine or that the men picked
up as her assailants are guilty not only of any
attack on her but of any knowledge of her
or of an attack having been made on her.
But for Judge Christy the murderers would
have gone free and a fancy ball been given in
their honor. The judge could not be stam=
peded, but kept his seat as the judge of the
realm. Flamboyancy of defense counsel nor.
unintelligible suggestions from the nary uni-
forms in Washington, abetted by Secretary
Adams, and brocaded by the big boys of the.
home fleet, failed to coniuse him. His prop-
osition stood the navy crowd on its head, tha
unless he had assurance that the murderers
and lynchers, including the lady admiral,
would remain within the call of the court,
he would set bail at $50.000.
The question now in Honolulu is not upon
the guilt of anybody of an attack on the
Massie lady stroller, but was she attacked at
all? Americau newspapers, which took on the
rage of insanity at the break of the story of
the murder of the Honolulu youth, are too
cowardly to admit that they were taken in by
an act as clever as woman's play ever iere
The American nation is a lynch law nation.
It is a murderers' paradise. It is crazed on
this thing called race, and, therefore, lying,
deception, cheating, and the moral swindle,
have become the base work of its structure.
No one would deny that the American people'
are making a distinct contribution to civilize-
tion in the way of material inventions for the
physical joys and comforts, that is, they are
wood and coal stock of the human breed.
Neither can it be denied that they are not
constituted for social intercourse with refined
people not of their color. A silly woman's
yarn, and one lady admiral on her flagship
can stir them to an infamy surprising even
to those who, appreciating their cunning, are
thoroughly acquainted also with their impos-
sibilities in the circle of sane conduct.
Instead of Washington running Hawaii,
Honolulu should be running Washington, in-
cluding Pratt, the writing admiral.
