South in Lynchings
NEW YORK, Jan, 8.—That fear is the predominant element...
responsible for the large number of lynchings of Negroes in the
South, is the conclusion drawn by Prof. Howard W. Odum;
member of the southern commission on lynching and professor™
at the University of North Carolina, in a recent article on the
Nation
"First we
come to the elemental
factor of fear with its many ramifica-
tions. It is not primarily that the
South is traditionally afraid of Negrou
domination. It might seem logical to
assign this as an important factor in
those regions where the Negro pre-
dominates numerically and where
conceivably he might become master
of voting and control. But these re-
gions are not the only ones where
lynchings occur or where the most
barbaric anti-social conduct is found.
What, therefore, are the other phases
of the fear-force which condition the
region for this particular sort of anti-
social behavior? It seems apparent;
that the general fear which lies at
the basis of the lynching phenomenon
involves many other features.
"The Negro is troublesome to our
peace of mind, though we do not
quite know how or why. He is myk-
ing a great deal of progress in many
different ways. He may become a
different sort of person from what we
now think he ought to be. He may
become an intimate part of our civil-
ization and culture. He may really
be our equal.
We
We may really he
wrong in our estimate of him.
fear what will happen in the future.
He has to be kept in his place. We
are not really afraid of the Negro
himself. We are afraid of the pros-
pect. Our thought of it is beyond
the control of anything except our
emotional conditioning. What are we
going to do about it? We are uneasy.
But we let things drift along, and
when something happens, the easiest
way is the way of violence and emo-
tional debauch. And we struggle with
ferr and misgivings and rage that we
should get into such a fix. And the
Negro must pay.
"And then we are afraid of what
we have done. Our conscience is the
conscience of a religious people. It
is written that we must protect our
women and our race. It is written
that the Negra is a hewer of wood
and a drawer of water. Written or
not written, we have done right and
will stand by it and see that the
sacred whiteness of our race shall not
be violated. We are dangerous to
those who oppose us. We are hostile
to those who reason. We are afraid.
and it makes us mad."
