INDIANA WANTS LIFE OF MAN WHO
ESCAPED MOB WHICH LYNCHED 2,
BUT DOESN'T PUNISH MOBBERS
Indiana Wants
Life Of Man
Special to the Journal and Guide to the Journal and Guide
(Continued
from Page One)
pleas saved the life of this innocent
boy. He was beaten severely before
being returned to the cell.
Shipp was selzed and hanged from an
elm tree in the courthouse yard. Smith
was thrown from the third floor of the
| jail with a noose around his neck and
strangled.
After the lynchings, the mob con-
sidered driving the two thousand col-
ored resident of Marlon out of the
city and burning their homes. This
action was deterred by the arrival of
police reinforcement from adjacent
cities.
Dr. W. T. Balley and Rev. William
Oglesby, state leaders of the National
MARION, Ind-Indiana will ask the death penalty for one of three
colored men implicated in the fatal shooting of a white man and the
attempted assault upon his 18-year-old girl friend, while more than a
thousand members of the mob that lynched the other two last Friday night
will go unmolested through the streets of this strong-hold of the Ku Klux
Klan.
❤
Prosecutor Harley F. Hardin an-
nounced Friday that no action was
planned to bring the members of the
mob to justice, but asserted that the
September grand jury would be asked
to indict Herbert Cameron for the mur-
der of Claude Deeter. 23.
After Abraham Smith. 19. and
Thomas Shipp. 18, had been taken by
force from the jail and lynched, Cam-
eron and Robert Sullivan, held on a
robbery charge, were spirited to the In-
diana State Reformatory to save them
from the possible afterglow of the all
too slowly dying embers of the Ku Klux
Klan, whose hooded members roamed
Hoosier plains several years ago.
Troops Restore Order
Two companies of the Indiana Na-
tional Guard summoned from camp in
Kentucky, 160 miles away. arrived late
and prevented any further outbreaks of
racial hatred.
Marlon is the seat of Grant County
and is in the northeast central portion
of Indiana, fifty miles from Ohio on
the east and one hundred miles from
Michigan on the north.
Despite the presence of the sheriff's
forces and the police strength of this
city of 23,000, the mob was permitted
to enter the jail and to batter down cell
doors with sledge hammers without
the firing of a single shot by the police
officers, either to protect the public
property under their care or save the
lives of the prisoners.
Shipp and Smith had been arrested
in connection with a holdup. It was
charged that they had come upon
Deeter and his sweetheart, Mary Ball,
parked at a secluded roadside spot,
Thursday of last week, and that they
had demanded money of Deeter. The
latter is said to have resisted them,
whereupon he was shot three times.
The additional charge was made that
after the shooting an attempt was made
to rape the white woman which was
only frustrated by the approach of
another car and her screams.
Notice of the holdup was given the
police who very shortly arrested Shipp
on circumstantial evidence, and the be-
lief of the police chlef that he was"a
sort of a bad guy." Shipp was said to
have confessed the holdup and to have
Implicated Smith and another.
The mob grew quickly from one hun-
dred, who came to this city from Deet-
er's home town, Fairmont, to several
hundreds.
In spite of the mob threats the of-
tficers of the law did nothing but argue
with the mob leaders and turn the
fire hose on the mob. When members
of the mob brandished their guns, the
forces of law and order desisted with
1
the hose play.
There were eighteen colored prisoners
in the jail. The lives of all were in
Jeopardy. One boy was brought out.
protesting his innocence. Only the in-
terference of the girl's uncles and his
(Continued on Page Fifteen)
