THE CHURCH AND LYNCHING CHURCH AND LYNCHING
Referring to the recent outbreaks of mob violence and
lynching in several parts of the South, the Commission on Inter-
racial Relations says:
"The responsibility of our religious leaders is equally
obvious. Few will doubt that the preachers of the
South, if they would, could speedily build a Christian
sentiment that would no longer tolerate lynchings. Yet
for the most part they have nothing whatever to say
about it. The occasional. exceptions are notable. Mean-
time our American lynchings probably do more than
anything else to discredit Christianity at home and
abroad. We.submit that, so long as lynchings con-
tinue, no preacher can escape a share of the responsi-
bility unless he has delivered his soul in an honest ef-
fort to make such things impossible."
}}
This is a rather strong indictment of the white clergy of
the South but it is nevertheless true. The Southern white min-
isters could wield a powerful influence for justice and right, but
..whether they will in large numbers do so at any time in the
near future is open to serious doubt. Here and there a white
minister will, like one of the gentlemen of the cloth in Sherman,
Texas, rise up and denounce the mistreatment or lynching of a
Negro, but as a rule the clergymen keep mum about such savage
orgie, if indeed they do not participate in them.
It should be remcinbered, however, that the Southern white
church in its attitude toward the oppressed and persecuted
Negro is but running true to form. From the earliest days it
has been more interested in saving the souls of the Negroes in
Africa than the bodies of those in Dixie. It defended the in-
stitution of chattel slavery to the bitter end, was arrayed
against the embattled freedmen in the terrible decade of the
reconstruction, so-called, and in recent years when the revived
Ku Klux Klan was whipping, threatening, torturing, hanging
and burning whites and blacks, it remained silent or only offered
half-hearted opposition.
Sometimes we imagine it is rather naive to expect the
Southern white church to act in accordance with the teachings
of Jesus. After all it is more a great white social organization
than it is a Christian institution, and one cannot make saints
out of mobbists by gathering them in churches on Sunday after
they have robbed, exploited and persecuted the six preceding
days. The Interracial Commission might be striking closer to
the root of the problem if it indicted the business interests of
Dixie for the continuation of mob violence. After all, they have
always been more powerful than the Southern white church, as
shown by the fact that the church has always done their bid-
ding. These interests dominate the press and politics as they
do the pulpit; they have always dominated them. Bankers,
planters, mill owners, realtors and merchants have but to say
that lynching must cease and it will cease. That they have not
seen fit to do so leads us to believe that they think such an
action would be inimical to their economic interests. It is sig-
nificant that before the Civil War when the bulk of the Negroes
were private property and there was more enmity between
them and the poor whites than there is today, the business in-
terests of the South would not permit the Negroes to be harmed
just as they will not permit their profits to be interfered with
today by mobs of white mill workers agitating for more wages
and less work.
