I
I
The Guide Post
By RICHARD H. BOWLING RICHARD H. BOWLING
WHAT A LYNCHING COSTS A LYNCHING COSTS
According to press reports Governor
Dan Moody of Texas gave specific or-
ders that the Sherran mob bent on
lynching a Negro should not be shot
at. I suppose he was thinking that it
would
Would cost less to allow one Negro to be
lynched than it would to save him
from lynching by means of showing
armed resistance to men about to take
the law into their own hands. And
think of the possible considerations
by which he was moved. To really re-
sist this mob of white Texans would
involve the loss of Sherman's vote in
the next political campaign. As for a
city whose Nordic population was six-
sevenths of the total, its vote was not
to be lightly looked upon. What was
one Negro's life over against hundreds,
perhaps thousands, of white votes?
Again, if the soldiery were to fire
upon a mob's ring leaders, there would
be weeping and wailing in the homes of
some of their familles. Why save the
life of one Negro already foredoomed to
death by law at the expense of the dis-
tress that would thereby come to some
homes of white law-breakers?
The Value of a Life
Besides, had not this Negro con-
fessed to such a crime as certain South-
ern newspaper men still describe as
justificatory of that extra legal means
of expiation known as a lynching? To
save this man's life from a mob bent
on doing "justice" would be an af-
front to white womanhood. Of course,
many large organizations of the South's
leading women have repeatedly gone on
record as not needing any such bar-
barous "proof" of their virtue or "pro-
tection" of their womanhood. But what
of that when dozens of Sherman's
white women, some with babies in
their arms, would be standing by with
the milling crowds of white men and
boys waiting to shout in glee at sight
of a human body falling two stories to
the ground with a sickening thud and
later sizzling in flames? Save one Ne-
gro by robbing these people of their
God-given rights to such Southern,
Christian joy? That would be exact-
ing too big a price for his life.
But I surmise that brother Moody
has had some other thoughts to ponder
since last Friday evening..
Even a
damage suit in favor of a mob victim's
relatives under a state anti-lynching
law would not have amounted to what
it will cost to replace Sherman's $60,000
courthouse. Besides, along with the
destruction of the building went the
loss of many priceless legal and his-
torical documents, pictures, and me-
mentoes. There is also the monetary
loss to the city in taxable values blown
up, burned, and otherwise destroyed
In the Negro quarter. Dwelling houses,
stores. undertaking establishments, and
other business buildings in a city's Ne-
gro section are revenue yielding prop-
ertics just as those in other sections.
Also, think of the suspension of use-
ful work that has prevailed in that
little city, for the past several days. The
whole Negro population of from fifteen
hundred to two thousand vanishing
over night. Hundreds of enraged
whites deserting homes, stores, schools.
factories, farms, and stalking the streets
brandishing guns, knives, ropes, acety-
lene torches, sticks of dynamite.
What Is The Cost?
And what about the cost in inter-
racial goodwill? No one save the
thoughtful leaders of white Sherman
will ever know to what lengths they
will have to go to convince their "col-
ored friends" that they need not se-
cretly arm and prepare to meet force
with force next time and so really
"raise hell" when brother Moody again
authorizes turning white Sherman'a
hoodlums loose.
Finally, what about the white Chris-
tians of Sherman? Do they have 28
much faith now in the sweet compul-
sion of Christian love as they once pro-
fessed? Will they wire brother Moody
their congratulations on the success of
love without judgment, of trust in
white chivalry without remembrance
that humanity with its mob psychology
is deeper than storied chivalry? Can
their ministers go on preaching Funda-
mentalism, which unless one believes
he shall be cast into hell-fire, while
the more burning issues of law observ-
ance and common humanity weep for
courageous treatment? If his Chris-
tianity is anything other than a sound-
ing brass or a clanging cymbal, among
the other ultimate costs of this lynch-
ing will be the troubling of conscience
of many a Sherman minister and lay-
man.
