Spirit of The Press
Need For Anti-Lynching Law
From the Illinois Miner, Union Labor Labor Union Miner, Illinois the
Lynchings, which in the last two years have
shown a gratifying decline, are again on the
way up in the United States. One of the most
horrible crimes in recent years was the triple
lynching of three Negroes in South Carolina.
These victims were taken from the jail and
killed, although one of them had just been
declared innocent after trial, and the other two.
one a woman, had been granted a new trial.
is alleged that the police officers were accom-
plices in this crime. The public authorities of
South Carolina were as usual doing nothing un-
til Walter White of the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People and
later the New York World goaded them into ac-
tion. It is yet too soon to predict that there
is courage enough and decency enough in South
Carolina to bring the lynchers to justice.
Not to be behind hand in crime Texas re-
ports a triple lynching for reasons unknown!
Two of the victims-a man and his wife-were
burned to death in their cabin
country of the Fundamentalists,
themselves on their religious zeal.
In view of these facts and others like them, it
is high time to revive agitation for a Federal
Anti-Lynching Law. It would, of course, have
been better if the State had taken care of this
matter. A Federal law will not be self-enforc-
ing. Nevertheless, if American citizenship means
anything, it means the right to life as against
the mob. The United States is bound to guar-
antee that to its Negro citizens. Undoubtedly
the previous agitation for the Dyer Anti-Lynch-
ing Bill in Congress was partly responsible for
the improvement in the South. This time sup-
port should be given to the bill in dead earnest.
There is no room for sectional feeling in this
matter, nor can the North, in view of its own
race rlots, assume a holler-than-thou-attitude.
All of us as decent citizens must get together to
remove from the United States a disgrace which
ir not shared by the most backward peoples on
the earth.
This in the
who pride
