OTHER PAPERS SAY PAPERS SAY
MAY THE better DAY COME THE better DAY COME
{Thyris (kios Chronicle-Telegraph) Thyris( kios Chronicle- Telegraph)
We have just read with horror, of the lynch.
ings of the three Negroes in South Carolina.
Just at the time when we are beginning to
congratulate ourselves that we were becoming
more humane in America, this terrible incident
occurs. We do not believe that sane and in-
telligent people can read of such an incident
without feeling ashamed of their race.
Here were three Negroes, tried under con-
ditions where they certainly would not have
any advantage over the state or over public
opinion, with the law taking its course in due
form, and yet to suffer at the hands of a white
mob. The truth is that the mob very appar-
ently was not as angry at the Negroes them-
selves as they were over the fact that law
and justice were operating in their natural
course. They could not bear to see the
privileges of government extended to these
three people who belong to the down-trodden
race.
A white judge. by the way, had directed the
return of a verdict of "not guilty" in the case
of one of these victims. Does any one imagine
that this judge living in Aiken. S. C., was pro-,
tecting a guilty Negroe? Certainly not, and
ye: this man whom but a short time before
had been declared not guilty on orders of the
court, was brutally killed with a shotgun and
the other two. his brother and sister, were
similarly destroyed.
Such an action is discouraging to those who
would see the principles of the Prince of Peace
prevail. It is discouraging to those whose
faith has been increasing in the humaneness of
our civilization. It is discouraging, but it
should not prevent the Negroes and the friends
of the Negro and people who believe in law
and justice from girding themselves more
strongly than ever to bring about the desired
condition where the mantle of justice will pro-
tect the body of the Negro as certainly in the
South as it protects the body of the white man,
