EXPRESSED BY OUR
CONTEMPORARIES
The South Carolina Lynching South Carolina Lynching
(From the New York Times.) From the New York Times.)
at Afken. S. C. of three Negroes, who
killed while making a liquor raid upon a house
with the immentionable crime" was lynched in
August, a State newspaper called the affair "Vir«
ginia's shame." and other newspapers demanded
"swift punishment" of the guilty. The South is
setting its iace against lynching, and the circum-
stances of the Alken affair leave no room for doubt
that it will be denounced as an atrocity. Judge
Langham has already summoned the Grand Jury to
make an investigation.
(From the Evening Post, )
None of the conventional excuses for reversion
to lynch law appear in the most recent Southern
atrocity. The three Negrors who were shot to
death at Alken, S. C., one of them a woman, had re-
ceived prompt enough trials, and one of them had
just been cleared of the charge of conspiracy to
murder before he was taken out and lynched. The
South Carolinians who took part in the killing of
these Negroes expressed all too plainly their con-
tempt for the machinery of justice in their own
State. It does not appear that the jailer and the
Sheriff made any very determined effort to save
their prisoners. The cold-bloodedness of this par-
ticular lynching is, however, the most striking
thing about it; the reputed crime of which the Ne
groes were convicted at their first trial occurred
months ago, and, unfortunate though it was, it did
not even at the time of its commission have any
of the usual elements which drive a populace to for
get civilization and turn back to the law of the jun-
gle. Other Southern States have proved that lynch-
ings are by no means inevitable and thereby im-
proved their standing among the civilized commu-
nities of the world. South Carolina could do much
to remove this stain by punishing the men who so
openly insulted the courts of law of the State. but
that they will be punished is too much to hope for.
If that were even remotely possible, the lynching
would never have occurred.
(From the New York World.)
Three Negroes were taken from jull at Alken,
S. C.. Friday and lynched. The same night a Negro
was taken from jail at over, Tenn., and lynched.
Both mobs were arred and musked; both Sheriffs
plead that they were overpowered in jull; Coroners'
juries promptly returned verdicts that the Negroes
came to their death at the hands of "unknown
parties." In both cases the law with due diligence
had been put into operation and the prisoners were
held in jail awaiting trial. For their purposes the
South Carolina and Tennessee mobs did not need
to know whether the three men and one woman
were guilty or innocent; in defiance of the law and
the cats they murdered the prisoners anyhow.
It f all an old story. That is the disheartening
part of it. There are sections of the South where
the press and publle officiais on occasion refuse 18
condone lynchings in any circumstances. But that
does not stop lynchings. The only way to stop them
is by the rigorous punishment of the lynchers. How
often does that follow? What do South Carolina |
and Tennessee in these instances propose to do for i
the credit of the State in the vindication of the law?
1
