First Lynching of 1926 Lynching of 1926
Democrat.) Globe- St. Louis the From
Mississippi has the stigins of being the scene
of more than one-third of all the lynchings that oc.
curred in the United States in 1925, but it is from
Florida, of feverish real estate activities, that the
news comes of the first lyuching in 1926, aocom-
panied by other reports of race troubles. At Ocala,
Fla., last Monday a mob seized a Negro, whom of-
ficers were taking in an automobile to be identified.
they
but before the identification had been made
lyuched him. It was not mentioned that these of.
ficers made any earnest attempt to protect this pris.
oner from the mob's attack.
Following this barbaric killing on the eleventh
day of the now year, three Negro organizations in
Tampa have appealed to the city government for
protection against “night riders." Not the price of
tobacoo, which at the outset was one of the reasons
behind the "night riders" spreading terror in Ken-
tucky and Tennesses some years ago, but the ani.
mosity of real estate agents, who would force the
Negroes to sell their holdings and make way for
subdivisions, is given as the guiding impulse of
these Tampa marauders. One aged Negro told of
the burning of a cross before his home and of a
warning to leave the city in twenty-four hours. The
same band, he said, set fire to another Negro's
house.
Such reports somewhat dim the prospect that
racial difficulties, which have undergone so marked
a decrease in the past two years, will still further
decline in 1926. Dropping from forty-three in 1923
to airteen in 1924, the number of lynchings re-
mained at that minimum in 1925. A still further
reduction might be expected, if officers and the
public should at all times take a firm atand against
these acts of violence and cowardice, as well as
against any kind of agitation that is designed to
stir up racial animosities. Being the first state to
have a lynching in 1926, Florida should be the first
state to demand the punishment of its perpetrators.
