A One Way Road Road Way One
THANKS to a Negro newspaper, the
Call, of Kansas City, Missouri, the real
cause of the lynching of a colored man
named Walter R. Mitchell, in Excelsior
Springs, a town of that state, has been
revealed. Mitchell, of course, was ar-
rested and accused of rape, an accusa».
tion behind which so many dastardly
crimes have already been committed.
that it means nothing, and "positively
identified" by a white man's female
companion, which means less than noth-
ing.
ACCORDING to the Call:
"The inside story of Waiter R. Mitcheli.
and how he came to be accused by Utt was
told by him to a few persons in the Ex.
celsior Springs jail last Friday morning.
Outside the mob was gathering, but cool and
collected this Negro sat there and told of
the operations of a cattle stealing ring in
Clay County, and expressed the opinion that
when he got in touch with outside, all
would come out right. He hired attorneys,
and in lieu of money gave to Mesвrá. R. P.
Duncan and S. J. Rowell, the attorneys, an
oder upon Burrell Strong for $25.00 as a fee.
"Mitchell said that he with others had
been stealing dry cattle; shipping them to
the Kansas City market and dividing the
proceeds. He claimed that $200 was due him
for his share in this loot. He said he had met
Utt and his companion on the road the night
before: had quarrelled with Un about his
money: had fought with Utt and whipped
him; bad thrust Miss Holt aside when she at.
tempted to interfere, then had gone home
and to bed. No assault on the girl was ever
in his mind, because her part in the whole
affair was only a side incident to him.
"Three details of the story told by Utt
and Miss Holt are improbable. The first
is that any meeting whatever occurred on a
a dark road, with them stopping at the
behest of an unknown person, armed with a
flashlight. Autoists do not stop at night no
matter how accosted, for fear of robbers.
Yet they say they stood still while the 'man
alighted from his horse and threw the light
from his flashlight in Utt's face and then hit
him in the mouth either with his first or the
flashlight. They do not say the assailant
was armed with a pistol. They almost say
he was not, because it was 'struck with
fist or flashlight." If they could identify
Mitchell through the glare, they certainly
would have seen any pistol carried in his
other hand. Uitt would have difficulty in
proving to a jury that he was robbed and
his companion raped by an unarmed as.
sallant, whom he allowed to dismount from
a horse before striking him and entering the
car. The fast get-away of a Ford car is too
well known to the farmer jurymen.
"Point No. 2, which would be difficult to
prove after once it was admitted that the
three persons did meet in this road, is
identification. Human eyes do not see
through light into darkness. Utt and Miss
Holt could not identify anyone behind a
flashlight. Folice, burglars and ordinary
users of flashlights know the impossibility of
seeing what is behind them.
"Lastly Utt would have had to prove to
a jury that he was stunned the first instant
after he identified the assallant, and stayed
stunned until the rape was done, but woke
up in time for Mitchell to leave after having
warned them."
"Mitchell was tried by a mob and not
before a jury, and the evidence there was
first and foremost the positive' identification
by a hysterical girl, his having sandal shoes.
and his presence in Excelsior Springs. The
usual confession with which moba salve
conscienco is not claimed in this case.
Mitchell's body was strung up with the month
stuffed with grass. He did not talk the
moment before death and the Standard says
of him: Although kicked and cuffed and
cthers grabbing at his hair, the colored man
showed romarkable nerve. There wAR DO
cringing, no pleading, or yelling for help.
He was either a brave, nervy darky, or else
he know how to conceal his terror.'
"Mitchell was killed in spite of the plead-
ing of influential citizens. He was killed in
spite of the weaknesses of the accusation,
and the lack of corroborative evidenco.
was found at home asleep, he never registad,
he was uparmod, he protosted his innocence
and die.) hruvely."
He
WE HAVE GONE into this story in de-
tail because we want to bring out one
important point, which is that Mitchell
died bravely. We know colored men
and women without number have been
arrested, charged with crimes they
knew nothing about and done to dealth.
We believe, too, that most of them have
gone to their deaths unflinchingly. And,
while our sympathies have always gone
out to them, they have died mostly as
individuals.
I
THE TIME has now come when all of
us must begin to think of what we shall
do when the time comes for us to defend
ourselves with our lives. The bill intro-
duced by Congressman Dyer, of Mis-
souri, designed to give backbone to our
constitutional right to life, is enmeshed
in politics and men who profess to be
our friends are afraid to take a stand on
it. Our homes are being invaded by
hoodlums who would restrict our right
to own property. Every effort must be
bent toward a peaceful solution of the
many problems with which we are con-
fronted with the acquiescence of a
spineless Nation. We must not, however,
lose sight of the fact that our efforts for
peace may be wasted and that at any
moment we may be called upon to defend
our families, our homes, our race and
our right to life with our lives.
WHEN THIS TIME COMES THERE IS
BUT ONE WAY TO DIE.
