CS
CS
CS
CS
CS
CS
CS
CS
CS
CS
CS
CS
CS
CS
CS
CS
110
THE CHRISTIAN EDUCATOR.
as a line of fire. The South would see no way of dealing with slavery
except to strengthen and fortify it at every point. Its extinction they
would not contemplate. Even a suggestion for its amelioration was
regarded as dangerous to the safety of the State and to the sacredness
of the family.
WHO PAYS FOR THE EDUCATION OF THE NEGRO IN
THE SOUTH?
THE Rev. Jno. J. Tigert, D. D., Fraternal Delegate from the Meth-
odist Episcopal Church, South, in his address delivered before the
General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church at Omaha, Ne-
braska, May 17, 1892, said:
"Up to January, 1889, eleven of the former Slave States had expended more
than $37,000,000 in the maintenance of normal and public schools for the Negro
youth, poor Mississippi leading the van with $7,136,800. If we allow $4,000,000
per annum as the sum raised for the same purpose during the three and a half
years since these figures were obtained, the Southern States have raised, since the
war, in round numbers, $50 000,000 for the education of the negro. This is the ac-
knowledgment of her de to the African which the poverty-stricken and war-
desolated South freely makes. Since the dorate war-debt was never paid,
and the Federal treasury has met, and is meeting, national debt, it has been
hastily concluded that the South had escaped the financial burdens of the Civil
War. Not so. The helpless and ignorant black, that came out of bondage in 1865,
has been, in a figurative sense, the ward of the Nation; he has been, in fact, the
charge of the South, whose white population, as shown above, has been educating
and Christianizing him. At the same time, our system of high-tariff-protection
laws has imposed an unequal share of national taxes, used in part to`extinguish
the debt created, by the war, on the agricultural populations of the South and
West. While the rest of the country, moreover, has been draining the national
treasury of its great surplus of a few years ago, through the Pension Bureau, at
an annual rate greater than the sum required for the support of the standing ar-
mies of the German Empire, the Southern States have been draining their own
treasuries to qualify the Freedman for the duties of American citizenship. 'North-
ern benevolence has been magnificent,' said our Bishop Haygood, when agent of
the Slater Fund, but Southern Christians have done more than their Northern
brethren; for the white people in the South pay nearly all the taxes, and most
Southern people are Church-members." "
But in a paper contributed to the Forum, and printed in July of
the same year, Mr. George W. Cable said:
"One of Georgia's ablest educators and noblest citizens tells us that from 1865
to January 1, 1889, the Southern States paid out over $37,000,000 for the education
of the colored race. But, as some one has wittily said, we must not use the nu-
merators of statistics without their denominators. Even though this outlay had
been all made within the last fifteen years, it would be only about one dollar and
a half yearly, per capita, of the colored school-population in the eleven States
expending it-less than one-tenth the per capita spent by Dakota in the year
1887-88 on her children of school age. If Georgia is a fair example of these
eleven States, not half this outlay was tax on property. Though forty-seven per
THE CHRISTIAN EDUCATOR.
It is a contradiction to well-known human experience. History does
not present an example of such a transformation in the character of
any class of men so extreme, so unnatural, and so complete as is im-
plied in this charge. The change is too great, and the period too
brief. Instances may be cited where men fall like stars from heaven;
but such is not the usual experience. Decline in the moral character
of a people is not sudden, but gradual. The downward steps are
marked at first by degrees and by increasing momentum from bad to
worse. Time is an element in such changes, and I contend that the
Negroes of the South have not had time to experience this great
change and reach this lower depth of infamy. On the contrary, in
point of fact, they have been, and still are, improving and ascending
to higher levels of moral and social worth.
102
Again, I do not believe it and utterly deny it, because those who
bring the charge do not, and dare not, give the Negro a chance to be
heard in his own defense. He is not allowed to explain any part of
his alleged offense. He is not allowed to vindicate his own character,
or to criminate the character and motives of his accusers. Even the
mobocrats themselves admit that it would be fatal to their purpose to
have the character of his accusers brought into court. They pretend
to a delicate regard for the feelings of the parties assaulted, and there-
fore object to giving a fair trial to the accused. The excuse in this
case is contemptible. It is not only mock modesty, but mob modesty.
Men who can collect hundreds and thousands, if we may believe them,
and can spread before them in the tempest and whirlwind of vulgar
passion the most disgusting details of crime, with the names of women
with the alleged offense, should not be allowed to shelter themselves
under any pretense of modesty. Such a pretense is absurd and shame-
less. Who does not know that the modesty of womanhood is always
an object for protection in a court of law? Who does not know that
a lawless mob, composed in part of the basest of men, can have no
such respect for the modesty of women as a court of law? No woman
need be ashamed in a court of law to confront one who has insulted
or assaulted her. Besides innocence does not hesitate to come to the
rescue of justice.
COURTS EVADED BECAUSE NEGROES INNOCENT.
Again, I do not believe it, and deny it, because if the evidence
were deemed sufficient to bring the accused to the scaffold through
the action of an impartial jury, there could be, and would be no ob-
jection to having the alleged offender tried in conformity to due pro-
cess of law.
97
THE CHRISTIAN EDUCATOR.
have the ear of the world all to themselves, and the world generally
approves their verdict.
THE BETTER CLASSES" IN THE SOUTH.
Such, then, is the state of Southern civilization in its relation to
the colored citizens of that section; and though the picture is dark and
terrible, I venture to affirm that no man North or South can deny the
essential truth of the picture.
Now, it is important to know how this state of affairs is viewed by
the better classes of the Southern States. I will tell you; and I ven-
ture to say if our hearts were not already hardened by familiarity with
such crimes against the Negro, we should be shocked and astonished by
the attitude of these so-called better classes of the Southern people and
their lawmakers. With a few noble exceptions, the upper classes of
the South are in full sympathy with the mob and its deeds. There
are few earnest words uttered against the mob or its deeds. Press,
platform, and pulpit are either generally silent, or they openly
apologize for the mob. The mobocratic murderers are not only per-
mitted to go free, untried and unpunished, but are lauded and ap-
plauded as honorable men and good citizens, the guardians of Southern
women. If lynch law is in any case condemned, it is only condemned
in one breath, and excused. in another.
The great trouble with the Negro in the South is, that all presump-
tions are against him. A white man has but to blacken his face, and
commit a crime to have some Negro lynched in his stead. An aban-
doned woman has only to start the cry that she has been insulted by
a black man, to have him arrested and summarily murdered by the
mob. Frightened and tortured by his captors, confused into telling
crooked stories about his whereabouts at the time when the alleged
crime was committed, and the death penalty is at once inflicted, though
his story may be but the incoherency of ignorance or distraction caused
by terror.
Now, in confirmation of what I have said of the better classes of
the South, I have before me the utterances of some of the best people
of that section, and also the testimony of one from the North, a lady,
from whom, considering her antecedents, we should have expected a
more considerate, just, and humane utterance.
AMAZING UTTERANCES.
In a late number of the Forum, Bishop Haygood, author of "Our
Brother in Black," says that "the most alarming fact is, that exe-
cution by lynching has ceased to surprise us. The burning of a human
106
THE CHRISTIAN EDUCATOR.
IT IS COLOR THEN, NOT CRIME.
Again, I do not believe it, and deny it, because the charge is not
so much against the crime itself, as against the color of the man alleged
to be guilty of it. Slavery itself, you will remember, was a system of
legalized outrage upon the black women of the South, and no white
man was ever shot, burned, or hanged for availing himself of all the
power that slavery gave him at this point.
Upon these grounds, then-grounds which I believe to be solid and
immovable-I dare here, and now in the Capital of the Nation, my
home, and in the presence of Congress, to reject it, and ask you, my
reader, and all just men, to reject this horrible charge so frequently
made and construed against the Negro as a class.
To sum up my argument on this lynching business: It remains to
be said that I have shown that the Negro's accusers in this case have
violated their oaths, and have cheated the Negro out of his vote; that
they have robbed and defrauded the Negro systematically and persist-
ently, and have boasted of it. I have shown that when the Negro
had every opportunity to commit the crime now charged against him,
he was never accused of it by his bitterest enemies. I have shown
that during all the years of reconstruction, when he was being murdered
at Hamburg, Yazoo, New Orleans, Copiah, and elsewhere, he was never
accused of the crime now charged against him. I have shown that, in
the nature of things, no such change in the character and composition
of a people as this charge implies could have taken place in the limited
period allowed for it. I have shown that those who accuse him dare
not confront him in a court of law, and have their witnesses subjected
to proper legal inquiry. And in showing all this, and more, I have
shown that they who charge him with this foul crime may be justly
doubted and deemed unworthy of belief.
HUMAN AND INHUMAN NATURE.
But I shall be told by many of my Northern friends that my argu-
ment, though plausible, is not conclusive. It will be said that the
charges against the Negro are specific and positive, and that there must
be some foundation for them, because, as they allege, men in their nor-
mal condition do not shoot and hang their fellow-men who are guilt-
less of crime. Well! This assumption is very just, very charitable.
I only ask something like the same justice and charity could be shown
to the Negro as well as to the mob. It is ereditable to the justice and
humanity of the good people of the North by whom it is entertained.
They rightly assume that men do not shoot and hang their fellow-men
without just cause. But the vice of their argument is in their assump-
THE CHRISTIAN EDUCATOR.
107
tion that the lynchers are like other men. The answer to that argu-
ment is, what may be truly predicated of human nature under one
condition is not what may be true of human nature under another.
Uncorrupted human nature may shudder at the commission of such
crimes as those of which the Southern mob is guilty.
But human nature uncorrupted is one thing, and human nature
corrupted and perverted by long abuse of irresponsible power is quite
another and different thing. No man can reason correctly on this
question who reasons on the assumption that the lynchers are like
ordinary men.
We are not, in this case, dealing with men in their natural condi-
tion, but with men brought up in the exercise of arbitrary power.
We are dealing with men whose ideas, habits, and customs are entirely
different from those of ordinary men. It is, therefore, quite gratuitous
to assume that the principles that apply to other men apply to the
Southern murderers of the Negro, and just here is the mistake of
the Northern people. They do not see that the rules resting upon the
justice and benevolence of human nature do not apply to the mobo-
crats, or to those who were educated in the habits and customs of a
slaveholding community. What these habits are I have a right to
know, both in theory and in practice.
THE LYNCHERS AND THE LYNCHED.
I repeat: The mistake made by those who, on this ground, object to
my theory of the charge against the Negro is, that they overlook the
natural effect and influence of the life, education, and habits of the
lynchers. We must remember that these people have not now, and
have never had, any such respect for human life as is common to other
men. They have had among them for centuries a peculiar institution,
and that peculiar institution has stamped them as a peculiar people.
They were not before the War, they were not during the War, and
have not been since the War, in their spirit or in their civilization, a
people in common with the people of the North. I will not here har-
row up your feelings by detailing their treatment of Northern prisoners
during the War. Their institutions have taught them no respect for
human life, and especially the life of the Negro. It has, in fact, taught
them absolute contempt for his life. The sacredness of life which
ordinary men feel does not touch them anywhere. A dead Negro is,
with them, a common jest.
They care no more for a Negro's right to live than they care for
his rights to liberty or his rights to the ballot. Chief-Justice Taney
told the exact truth about these people when he said: "They did not
THE CHRISTIAN EDUCATOR.
Not a breeze comes to us now from the late rebellious States that
is not tainted and freighted with Negro blood. In its thirst for blood
and its rage for vengeance, the mob has blindly, boldly, and defiantly
supplanted sheriffs, constables, and police. It has assumed all the
functions of civil authority. It laughs at legal processes, courts, and
juries, and its red-handed murderers range abroad unchecked and un-
challenged by law or by public opinion. Prison walls and iron
bars are no protection to the innocent or guilty, if the mob is in pur-
suit of Negroes accused of crime. Jail-doors are battered down in
the presence of unresisting jailers, and the accused, awaiting trial in
the courts of law, are dragged out and hanged, shot, stabbed, or burned
to death, as the blind and irresponsible mob may elect.
96
CRIME AGAINST CRIMINALS.
We claim to be a Christian country and a highly civilized Nation,
yet I fearlessly affirm that there is nothing in the history of savages
to surpass the blood-chilling horrors and fiendish excesses perpetrated
against the colored people by the so-called enlightened and Christian
people of the South. It is commonly thought that only the lowest
and most disgusting birds and beasts, such as buzzards, vultures, and
hyenas, will gloat over and prey upon dead bodies; but the Southern
mob, in its rage, feeds its vengeance by shooting, stabbing, and burn-
ing when their victims are dead.
Now, the special charge against the Negro by which this ferocity is
justified, and by which mob law is defended by good men North and
South, is alleged to be assaults by Negroes upon white women. This
charge once fairly started, no matter by whom or in what manner,
whether well or ill founded, whether true or false, is certain to subject
the accused to immediate death. It is nothing that in the case there
may be a mistake as to identity. It is nothing that the victim pleads
"not guilty." It is nothing that he only asks for time to establish his
innocence. It is nothing that the accused is of fair reputation, and his
accuser is of an abandoned character. It is nothing that the majesty
of the law is defied and insulted. No time is allowed for defense or ex-
planation; he is bound with cords, hurried off, amid the frantic yells
and cursing of the mob, to the scaffold, and under its shadow he is tor-
tured till, by pain or promises, he is made to think he can possibly
gain time, or save his life by confession, and then, whether innocent or
guilty, he is shot, hanged, stabbed, or burned to death amid the wild
shouts of the mob. When the will of the mob has been accomplished,
when its thirst for blood has been quenched, when its victim is speech-
less, silent, and dead, his mobocratic accusers and murderers, of course,
101
THE CHRISTIAN EDUCATOR.
Of course I shall not be able to succeed in doing the impossible,
but this one thing I can and will do. I can and will show that there
are sound reasons for doubting and denying this horrible and hell-black
charge of rape as the peculiar crime of the colored people of the
South. My doubt and denial are based upon two fundamental and
invincible grounds.
100
THE NATURAL PRESUMPTIVE EVIDENCE.
The first is the well-established and well-tested character of the
Negro on the very point upon which he is now violently and persist-
ently accused. The second ground for my doubt and denial is based
upon what I know of the character and antecedents of the men and
women who bring this charge against him. I undertake to say that
the strength of this position will become more manifest as I proceed
with my argument.
At the outset I deny that a fierce and frenzied mob is, or ought
to be deemed, a competent witness against any man accused of any
crime whatever. The ease with which a mob can be collected and the
slight causes by which it may be set in motion, and the elements of
which it is composed, deprive its testimony of the qualities that should
inspire confidence and command belief. It is moved by impulses
utterly unfavorable to an impartial statement of the truth. At the
outset, therefore, I challenge the credibility of the mob; and as the
mob is the main witness in the case against the Negro, I appeal to the
common sense of mankind in support of my challenge. It is the mob
that brings this charge, and it is the mob that arraigns, condemns,
and executes, and it is the mob that the country has accepted as its
witness.
Again, I impeach and discredit the veracity of Southern men gener-
ally, whether mobocrats or otherwise, who now openly and deliberately
nullify and violate the provisions of the Constitution of their country, a
Constitution which they have solemnly sworn to support and execute.
I apply to them the legal maxim, "False in one, false in all."
Again, I arraign the Negro's accuser on another ground. I have
no confidence in the truthfulness of men who justify themselves in
cheating the Negro out of his Constitutional right to vote. The men
who, either by false returns or by taking advantage of his illiteracy, or
surrounding the ballot-box with obstacles and sinuosities intended to
bewilder him and defeat his rightful exercise of the elective franchise,
are men who are not to be believed on oath. That this is done in the
Southern States is not only admitted, but openly defended and justified
by so-called honorable men inside and outside of Congress.
THE CHRISTIAN EDUCATOR.
circumstances have made necessary a sterner, stronger, and more ef-
fective justification of Southern barbarism; and hence, according to
my theory, we now have to look into the face of a more shocking and
blasting charge than either Negro supremacy or insurrection, or that of
murder itself.
105
This new charge has come at the call of new conditions, and noth-
ing could have been hit upon better calculated to accomplish its pur-
pose. It clouds the character of the Negro with a crime the most re-
volting, and is fitted to drive from him all sympathy, and all fair play,
and all mercy. It is a crime that places him outside of the pale of the
law, and settles upon his shoulders a mantle of wrath and fire that
blisters and burns into his very soul.
TO BLAST AND RUIN CHARACTER.
It is for this purpose, as I believe, that this new charge, unthought-
of in the times to which I have referred, has been largely invented, if
not entirely trumped up. It is for this purpose that it has been con-
stantly reiterated and adopted. It was to blast and ruin the Negro's
character as a man and a citizen.
I need not tell you how thoroughly it has already done its wonted
work. You may feel its malign influence in the very air. You may
read it in the faces of men. It has cooled our friends. It has
heated our enemies, and arrested in some measure the efforts that good
men were wont to make for the colored man's improvement and ele-
vation. It has deceived our friends at the North and many good
friends at the South; for nearly all have in some measure accepted the
charge as true. Its perpetual reiteration in our newspapers and maga-
zines has led men and women to regard us with averted
ing hate, and dark suspicion.
eyes, increas-
Some of the Southern papers have denounced me for my unbelief
in their new departure; but I repeat I do not believe it, and firmly
deny it. I reject it because I see in it evidence of an invention, called
into being by a well-defined motive, a motive sufficient to stamp it as
gross expedient to justify murderous assault upon a long-enslaved and
hence a hated people.
I do not believe it, because it bears on its face the marks of being
a makeshift for a malignant purpose. I reject it, not only because it
was sprung upon the country simultaneously with well-known efforts
now being industriously made to degrade the Negro by legislative en-
actments, and by repealing all laws for the protection of the ballot,
and by drawing the color-line in all railroad cars and stations and in
all other public places in the South; but because I see in it a means
of paving the way for our entire disfranchisement.
THE CHRISTIAN EDUCATOR.
109
parently no limit. If the institution of slavery could be rendered
secure, the dominant minds of the South saw political power and bound-
less wealth within their grasp. They saw that they could control
the product and regulate the price of a staple in constant demand
among every people on the globe.
The investment of the South in
slaves represented a capital of
two thousand millions of dollars,
reckoned only upon the salable
value of the chattel. Estimated
by its capacity to produce wealth,
the institution of slavery repre-
sented to the white population of
the South a sum vastly in excess
of two thousand millions. With-
out slave-labor, the cotton, rice,
and sugar lands were, in the view
of Southern men, absolutely value-
less. With the labor of the slave,
they could produce three hun-
dred millions a year in excess
of the food required for the population.
JAMES G. BLAINE.
Three hundred millions
a year represented a remunerative interest on a capital of five thousand
millions of dollars. In the history of the world there has perhaps
never been so vast an amount of productive capital firmly consolidated
under one power, subject to the ultimate control and direction of so
small a number of men.
In the closing and more embittered period of the political struggle
over the question of slavery, public opinion in the South grew narrow
and cruel. The mass of the Southern people refused to see anything
in the anti-slavery movement except fanaticism; they classed Abolition-
ists with the worst of malefactors; they endeavored to shut out by the
criminal code, and by personal violence, the enlightened and progress-
ive sentiment of the world. Their success in arousing the prejudice
and unifying the action of the people in fifteen States against the surg-
ing opinion of Christendom is without parallel. Philanthropic move-
ments elsewhere were regarded with jealousy and distrust. Southern
statesmen of the highest rank looked upon British emancipation in the
West Indies as designedly hostile to the prosperity and safety of their
own section, and as a plot for the ultimate destruction of the Republic.
Each year the hatred against the North deepened, and the boundary
between the Free States and the Slave States was becoming as marked
THE CHRISTIAN EDUCATOR.
being for any crime, it is thought, is a horror that does not occur
outside of the Southern States of the American Union, yet unless as-
saults by Negroes come to an end, there will most probably be still
further displays of vengeance that will shock the world, and men who
are just will consider the provocation."
In an open letter addressed to me by Ex-Governor Chamberlain,
of South Carolina, and published in the Charleston News and Courier,
a letter which I have but lately seen, in reply to an article of mine on
the subject, published in the North American Review, the ex-governor
says: "Your denunciation of the South on this point is directed ex-
clusively, or nearly so, against the application of lynch law for the
punishment of one crime, or one sort of crime. The existence, I sup-
pose, I might say, the prevalence of this crime at the South is unde-
niable. But I read your [my] article in vain for any special denuncia-
tion of the crime itself. As you say, your people are lynched, tortured,
and burned for assault on white women. As you value your own good
fame and safety as a race, stamp out the infamous crime." He further
says, the way to stop lynching is to stamp out the crime.
And now comes the sweet voice of a Northern woman, of Southern
principles, in the same tone and the same accusation-the good Miss
Frances Willard, of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union. She
says in a letter now before me: "I pity the Southerner. The problem
on their hands is immeasurable. The colored race," she says, "multi-
plies like the locusts of Egypt. The safety of woman, of childhood,
of the home, is menaced in a thousand localities at this moment, so
that men dare not go beyond the sight of their own roof-tree." Such,
then, is the crushing indictment drawn up against the Southern Ne-
groes-drawn up, too, by persons who are perhaps the fairest and most
humane of the Negro's accusers. But even they paint him as a moral
monster, ferociously invading the sacred rights of women and endan-
gering the homes of the whites.
98
ATROCIOUS CRIME ALLEGED.
The crime they allege against the Negro is the most revolting which
men can commit. It is a crime that awakens the intensest abhorrence
and invites mankind to kill the criminal on sight. This charge, thus
brought against the Negro, and as constantly reiterated by his enemies,
is not merely against the individual culprit, as would be in the case with
an individual culprit of any other race, but it is in a large measure a
charge against the colored race as such. It throws over every colored
man a mantle of odium, and sets upon him a mark for popular hate
more distressing than the mark set upon the first murderer. It points
THE CHRISTIAN EDUCATOR.
Any pretense that a guilty Negro, especially one guilty of the crime
now charged, would in any case be permitted to escape condign pun-
ishment is an insult to common sense. Nobody believes, or can be-
lieve, such a thing as escape possible in a country like the South.
Where public opinion, the laws, the courts, the juries, and the advo-
cates are all known to be against him, he could hardly escape if inno-
repeat, therefore, I do not believe it, because I know, and
you know, that a passionate and violent mob bent upon taking life,
from the nature of the case, is not a more competent and trustworthy
body to determine the guilt or innocence of a Negro accused in such a
case than is a court of law. I would not, and you would not, convict
a dog on such testimony.
cent.
But I come to another fact, and an all-important fact, bearing upon
this case. You will remember that during all the first years of recon-
struction, and long after the war, when the Southern press and people
found it necessary to invent, adopt, and propagate almost every species
of falsehood to create sympathy for themselves, and to formulate an
excuse for gratifying their brutal instincts, there was never a charge
then made against a Negro involving an assault upon any white woman
or upon any little white child. During all this time the white women
and children were absolutely safe. During all this time there was no
call for Miss Willard's pity, or Bishop Haygood's defense of burning
Negroes to death.
103
NEW CHARGE TRUMPED UP.
You will remember, also, that during this time the justification for
the murder of Negroes was said to be Negro conspiracies, insurrections,
schemes to murder all the white people, to burn the town, and commit
violence generally. These were the excuses then depended upon; but
never a word was then said or whispered about Negro outrages upon
white women and children. So far as the history of that time is con-
cerned, white women and children were absolutely safe, and husbands
and fathers could leave home without the slightest anxiety on account
of their families.
But when events proved that no such conspiracies, no such insur-
rections as were then pretended to exist, and were paraded before the
world in glaring head-lines, had ever existed, or were even meditated;
when these excuses had run their course and served their wicked
pose; when the huts of Negroes had been searched, and searched in
pur-
vain, for guns and ammunition to prove these charges, and no evidence
was found; when there was no way open thereafter to prove these
charges against the Negro, and no way to make the North believe in
these excuses for murder, they did not even then bring forward the
THE
CHRISTIAN EDUCATOR.
APRIL, 1894.
LYNCHING BLACK PEOPLE BECAUSE THEY
ARE BLACK.
INCREASING SAVAGERY.
THE presence of eight millions of people in any section of this
country constituting an aggrieved class, smarting under terrible wrongs,
denied the exercise of the commonest rights of humanity, and regarded
by the ruling class in that section as outside of the Government, out-
side of the law, and outside of society, having nothing in common
with the people with whom they live, the sport of mob violence and
murder, is not only a disgrace and scandal to that particular section,
but a menace to the peace and security of the people of the whole
country.
I have waited patiently, but anxiously, to see the end of the epi-
demic of mob law and persecution now prevailing at the South. But
the indications are not hopeful. Great and terrible as have been its
ravages in the past, it now seems to be increasing, not only in the
number of its victims, but in its frantic rage and savage extrava-
gance. Lawless vengeance is beginning to be visited upon white men
as well as black. Our newspapers are daily disfigured by its ghastly
horrors. It is no longer local, but national; no longer confined to the
South, but has invaded the North. The contagion is spreading, ex-
tending, and overleaping geographical lines and State boundaries, and
if permitted to go on, it threatens to destroy all respect for law and
order, not only in the South, but in all parts of our country, North
as well as South. For certain it is that crime allowed to go on unre-
sisted and unarrested will breed crime. When the poison of anarchy
is once in the air, like the pestilence that walketh in the darkness,
the winds of heaven will take it up and favor its diffusion. Though
it may strike down the weak to-day, it will strike down the strong
to-morrow.
95
THE CHRISTIAN EDUCATOR.
present allegation against the Negro. They, however, went on harass-
ing and killing just the same. But this time they based the right thus
to kill on the ground that it was necessary to check the domination and
supremacy of the Negro, and to secure the absolute rule of the Anglo-
Saxon race.
It is important to notice that there have been three distinct periods
of persecution of Negroes in the South, and three distinct sets of ex-
cuses for persecution. They have come along precisely in the order in
which they were most needed. First you remember it was insurrec-
tion. When that was worn out, Negro supremacy became the excuse.
When that is worn out, now it is assault upon defenseless women. I
undertake to say that this order and periodicity is significant, and
means something, and should not be overlooked. And now that
Negro supremacy and Negro domination are no longer defensible as
an excuse for Negro persecutions, there has come in due course this
heart-rending cry about the white women and little white children of
the South.
104
EVIDENT EXPLANATION.
Now, I ask what is the rational explanation of this singular
omission of this charge in the two periods preceding the present?
Why was not the charge made at that time as now? The Negro
was the same then as to-day. White women and children were
the same then as to-day. Temptations to wrong doing were the
same then as to-day. Why, then, was not this dreadful charge
brought forward against the Negro in war times, and why was it not
brought forward in reconstruction times?
I will tell you; or you, yourselves, have already answered the
question. The only rational answer is, that there was no foundation
for such a charge, or that the charge itself was either not thought of
or was not deemed necessary to excuse the lawless violence with which
the Negro was then pursued and killed. The old charges already
enumerated were deemed all-sufficient. This new charge has now
swallowed up
all the old ones, and the reason is obvious.
Things have changed since then; old excuses were not available,
and the Negro's accusers have found it necessary to change with them.
The old charges are no longer valid. Upon them the good opinion
of the North and of mankind can not be secured. Honest men no
longer believe in the wornout stories of insurrection. They no
longer believe that there is just ground to apprehend Negro su-
premacy. Time and events have swept away these old refuges of lies.
and
They did their work in their day, and did it with terrible energy
effect; but they are now cast aside as useless. The altered times and
THE CHRISTIAN EDUCATOR.
him out as an object of suspicion and avoidance. Now, it is in this
form that you and I, and all of us, are required to meet it and refute
it, if that can be done. In the opinion of some of us it is thought
that it were well to say nothing about it; that the least said about it
the better. In this opinion I do not concur. Taking this charge in
the broad and comprehensive sense in which it is presented, and as now
stated, I feel that it ought to be met, and, as a colored man,
I am
grateful for the opportunity now afforded me to meet it. For I believe
it can be met, and successfully met. I am of opinion that a people
too spiritless to defend themselves are not worth defending.
99
Without boasting, on this broad issue, as now presented, I am
ready to confront Ex-Governor Chamberlain, Bishop Fitzgerald, Bishop
Haygood, and Miss Frances Willard, and all others, singly or all to-
gether, without any doubt of the result.
But I want to be understood at the outset. I do not pretend that
Negroes are saints or angels. I do not deny that they are capable of
committing the crime imputed to them, but I utterly deny that they
are any more addicted to the commission of that crime than is true of
any other variety of the human family. In entering upon my argu-
ment, I may be allowed to say that I appear not as the defender of
any man guilty of this atrocious crime, but as the defender of the
colored people as a class.
HUMANE AND CHRISTIAN DEFENSE.
In answer to the terrible indictment thus read, and speaking for
the colored people as a class, I, in their stead, here and now plead
not guilty, and shall submit my case with confidence of acquittal by
good men and women North and South.
It is the misfortune of the colored people in this country that the
sins of the few are visited upon the many; and I am here to speak for
the many, whose reputation is put in peril by the sweeping charge in
question. With General Grant, and every other honest man, my motto
is: "Let no guilty man escape." But while I say this, I also say,
Let no innocent man be condemned and killed by the mob, or
crushed under the weight of a charge of which he is not guilty.
You will readily see that the cause I have undertaken to support
is not to be maintained by any mere confident assertions or general
denials. If I had no better ground to stand upon than this, I would
leave the field of controversy and give up the colored man's cause at
once to his able accusers. I am aware, however, that I am here to do
in some measure what the masters of logic say can not be done-prove
a negative.
108
THE CHRISTIAN EDUCATOR.
consider that the black man had any rights which the white men were
bound to respect." No man of the South ever called in question that
statement, and they never will. They could always shoot, stab, and
burn the Negro without any such remorse or shame as other men would
feel after committing such a crime. Any Southern man who is honest
and is frank enough to talk on the subject will tell you that he has no
such idea as we have of the sacredness of human life, and especially,
as I have said, of the life of the Negro. Hence it is absurd to meet
my arguments with the facts predicated of our common human nature.
LET JUSTICE BE DONE THOUGH THE HEAVENS FALL.
I know I shall be charged with apologizing for criminals. Ex-
Governor Chamberlain has already virtually done as much. But there
is no foundation for any such charge. I affirm that neither I nor any
other colored man of like standing with myself, has ever raised a
finger or uttered a word in defense of any one really guilty of the
dreadful crime now in question.
But what I contend for, and what every honest man, black or
white, should contend for, is, that when any man is accused of this or
any other crime, of whatever name, nature, or extent, he shall have
the benefit of a legal investigation; that he shall be confronted by his
accusers; and that he shall, through proper counsel, be able to question
his accusers in open court and in open daylight, so that his guilt or his
innocence may be duly proved and established.
If this is to make me liable to the charge of apologizing for crime,
I am not ashamed to be so charged. I dare to contend for the colored
people of the United States that they are a law-abiding people; and I
dare to insist upon it that they, or any man, black or white, accused
of crime, shall have a fair trial before he is punished.
BLAINE ON SLAVERY AND THE SOUTH.
THE slaves in the United States numbered about seven hundred
thousand when Washington's Administration was organized. They
had increased to four millions when Lincoln was chosen President.
Their number in 1860 was less in proportion to the white population
than it was in 1789. The immigration of whites had changed the
ratio. But the more marked and important change had been in the
value of slave-labor. In 1789 the slaves produced little or no sur-
plus, and in many States were regarded as a burden. In 1860 they
produced a surplus of at least three hundred millions of dollars.
The power of agricultural production in the Southern States had ap-
