Illinois Bar Denounces Mob Violence Mob Violence
BAR ASSOCIATION
FIGHTS MOB VIOLÈNCE.
(Continued from Page 1.)
ten days. The lyncher is no respecter
of sex, for seventy-six of the victims
have been women, one for every five
months.
"It used to be said that this terrible
punishment was reseryed for those
who commit rape, but that excuse has
long been buried. Not more than one-
third of the victims have been charged
with this crime or even suspected of
it. The offense is hideous, but it can
afford no basis for volunteers to con-
stitute themselves judge and jury and
executioner. In passing, what has
changed the Negro in freedom that he
should commit this crime unknown
when the women were left in his carę
unprotected during the long years of
the rebellion? Latterly good people
have concluded that it is the white
man's whisky. Could it be the law of
recreation demanding terrible retri-
butive justice? The breadth or the
depth of such great laws we do not
know."
I
Judge Winslow Makes Address.
The main speaker of the afternoon
was Judge John B. Winslow of the
Wisconsin Supreme Court. His sub-
ject was “Enforcement of the Law----
One Way to Increase Respect for the
Law." He said in part:
"Methods which fairly and satisfac-
torily answer all needs in the leisurely
days of the farm, the village, the stage
coach and the weekly mail are quite
inadequate to meet the demands of a
nation whose citizens live in great
cities, do business by telegraph and
telephone and travel by the limited
railway. The boy's jacket does not
fit the man.
"My thesis is simply this-both bar
and bench should be earnestly and
unitedly at work to fit legal adminis-
trative methods to modern conditions
and needs. Thus they may aid sub-
stantially not only in restoring and
building up genuine respect for the
law, but in making its enforcement
correspondingly easy and certain.
Kramer Elected President. •
The following officers were elected:
Edward C. Kramer, East St. Louis,
president; Nathan William MacChes-
ney, Chicago, first vice-president;
Thomas Worthington, Jacksonville,
second vice-president; Edgar Bronson
Tolman, Chicago, third vice-president;
John F. Voigt, Mattoon, secretary and
treasurer.
FIGHT OPENED BY
ILLINOIS STATE BAR
ASSOCIATION ON
MOB VIOLENCE
Attorney Robert McMurdy of Provident Hospital, Opens Battle
With Address on "Enforcement of the Law," a Spirited Indict-
ment of Mob Punishment-3,998 Lynched in 32 Years.
AFRO-AMERICAN MUST PROTECT SELF.- AMERICAN MUST PROTECT SELF.
Must Notify Southern White Men to Stop Living with Race
Women and When a Lynching is Staged They Must
Protect These Men With Their Lives.
Launching of a vigorous campaign
against mob murder and lynching
marked the opening session of the Illi-
nois State Bar Association's conven-
tion at the Hotel La Salle May 27th.
President Robert McMurdy, presi-
dent of Provident Hospital, fired the
opening gun when he delivered his ad-
dress on “Enforcement of the Law."
The major portion of his speech was
a spirited indictment of mob punish-
ment.
When the enthusiasm following his
address subsided, Judge E. O. Brown
of the Appellate Court, presented a
resolution calling for an organized ef.
fort to obtain anti-lynching legislation
throughout the country.
By unanimous passage the resolu-
tion will bring into being a commit-
tee of five members who shall petition
the conference of commissions on uni.
form state laws to prepare a model
law and further petition the American
Bar Association to promote the pass-
age of such a law.
3,998 Lynched in 32 Years.
Speaking of lynching in the United
States President McMurdy won ap-
plause with the following:
"The number of persons lynched in
this country during the period of
thirty-two years has reached the as
tounding total of 3,998, an average of
124 a year, 10 a month and 1 every
three days. Illinois was represented
in the shameful list.
"It ought not to be a solace to us to
find other states even more lawless,
but we may obtain a grain of guilty
comfort from the fact that, during the
entire thirty-two years, seven of the
states have never gone a twelve-
month without a lynching-not for al-
most a third of a century has a whole
year elapsed without mob murder in
the states of Alabama, Arkansas,
Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, South
Carolina and Texas.
"Only five states in the union have
been wholly free from this crime dur-
ing the period named-Maine, Massa-
chusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode
Island and Vermont; the remaining
New England state, Connecticut, has
lynched but one person. Let us bow
low with bared heads to New Eng-
land. Her fine old civilization has held
her in check and saved, not the honor,
but the face of the republic.
"Forty-eight states in the union and
over the names of forty-three we must
write the word uncivilized!
"The white race has not escaped
in this slaughter, for 1,227 white per-
sons have been lynched, one for every
(Continued no page 7.)
