Grand Chancellor of Knights of Pythias of
North America, South America, Austra-
lia and Africa Lynched in Florida.
Hon. S. W. Green, Supreme Chancellor of the Order, Taken from
Train and Lynched-Put to Death for Alleged Violation of
"Jim Crow" Law-The Greatest Outrage of the Year-Taken
from "Jim Crow" Coach.
PORTERS TELL OF CRIME
But There Is no Confirmation of the Crime-Chicago Defender
Telegrams Unanswered-Local
Officials Do Not Know Any
Details Great Exciternent-Major R. R. Jackson, "The Man
Who Would Know," Is Out of Town.
In a late edition of the Chicago
'American Tuesday evening, May 27,
the following:
appeared
I
VIOLATED JIM CROW LAW
AND WAS LYNCHEDJIM
"New Orleans, La., May 27.-Private
dispatches received from Milton, Fla.,
state that S. W. Green, supreme chan-
cellor of the Colored Knights of
Pythias, was taken from a train near
that town last night by a mob of
white men and lynched. Green, it is
said, had been insisting on riding in
Pullman sleeping cars in the states
where the Jim Crow law is in force.
Pullman porters told of the lynching.
They said Green had left the white
coach and gone in the Negro apart-
ment when taken from the train."
The publication of this story caused
great excitement in the city. Chi-
cago Defender reporters seeking con-
firmation found that Major R. R.
Jackson, representative in the State
Legislature and in charge of the Uni-
form Ranks, was in Springfield.
The supreme attorney of the order,
Mr. S. A. T. Watkins, was reached by
telephone in the corporation counsel's
office, in which he is an assistant.
"I have heard the rumor," he said,
"but my telegram, sent at a late hour
last night, is still unanswered."
Telegrams were sent by The Chi-
cago Defender to Mrs. Green and oth-
ers in New Orleans and Florida, but
that timidity tliat characterizes the
race in calamities of this kind evi-
dently prevented them from replying.
From a correspondent in a nearby
Florida town The Chicago Defender
learns that Mr. Green was taken
from the train by à large gang of
ruffians. He was beaten and kicked,
and, blood-soaked and unconscious, he
was about to be string up when the
sheriff intervened.
Porters, brakeman and conductors
arriving in Chicago Wednesday night
were interviewed, but that "don't
talk" order prevented each and every-
one from talking. Aspecial investi-
gator from The Chicago Defender left
for Milton Wednesday afternoon and
a full report of the affair will appear
in our next issue.
