BLACK AND WHITE CRIMINALS. AND WHITE CRIMINALS.
By Mrs. J. E. Wright. Mrs. J. E. Wright.
It is with sorrow and regret that we
read of the lynching of a Negro named
Homer Stewart at Cedar Crossing, Ga.
a small town near Vidalia, for the
murder of another Negro and the fatal
shooting of two others. The deed,
like all other lynching, was horrible
and when we learn that the mob were'
ven-
composed of colored men it was in-
deed shocking. We ask if there is any
excuse? Some say there are none, in
fact the majority of the people both
white and black, that is the more in-
telligent classes, condemn mob law in
any form. And while we regret this
horrible deed perpetrated by a band
of Negroes on one of their race we
stand appalled. Let us say this but
not in justification of the deed or the
lawless men, who, in their misguided
judgment, wreaked summary
geance on the murderer, for nothing
can justify either the crimes or crim-
Inals and we can but read another
page in the history of lawlessness.
Its pages reveal to us that the Negro
is the greatest imitator of the age,
and no doubt those half ignorant
Southern Negroes felt that they
would receive world-wide applause for
the act. Ever since the Negro was
brought here protesting from the wilds
of Africa they have been under tne
tutelage of the white man, and as we
read and follow the lines of history
from that time down to the present,
their adaptability to follow wherever
the white man leads has been demon-
strated in almost every walk in life,
and it is a regrettable fact that they
follow blindly and indiscriminately.
And we can not check a wave of pity
that passes over us when me take
into consideration the surroundings
and environments of a large percent.
age of the Southern Negro. I hope
that no one will misconstrue these re-
marks as an approval of mob violence,
for we deplore lawlessness, whether
committed by white or black. We
will anxiously await the outcome of
the fate of the lynchers. Will they
be apprehended, brought forward for
identification and punished according
to the laws of God and man? or will
the trial will be farce and the guilty
ɔnes go unpunished? We can but wait
and see.
