Watchtower
WILKINS By ROY WILKINS ROY
JUS
UST WHEN the anti-lynching bill was
thought to be safely buried, and just
as the Republicans and the Democrats were
about to stage their con-
ventions and try to woo
the Negro vote, the white
citizens of Brownsville,
Tenn.. threw a monkey
wrench into the machinery.
The professional white
southerners and their Ne-
gro lackeys had just finish-
ed their hurrahs for "no
lynchings" (which was un-
true, even without Browns-
ville) when Brownsville
staged a lynching, drove a
half dozen peaceful, law-
abiding Negro citizens
from the town, and terror.
ized the rest with threats.
The Brownsville incident (which is not
yet over) proves, if any proof were needed,
that the lynching spirit is not dead. Those
people, both the Negro and white, who say
we do not need a federal anti-lynching
law are kidding themselves in a fool's para-
dise. Of course, most of the whites who say
this do not want the federal government to
stop mob violence and they seize upon any
excuse to block the law. The Negroes who
say it are ignorant of the true function
of lynching. They have been taught by
whites to regard lynching as an individual
crime against a person.
Illustrates Lynching Evil
Brownsville illustrates perfectly what
lynching really is, why it is defended so
vigorously by many southern whites, and
why Negroes and the whites who hate an-
archy and love democracy must continue to
fight for a federal law, for any law, which
will check mobs.
Negroes
For the Brownsville whites sent mobs
against
because colored people
sought to register so they could vote in the
Presidential election next fall. A Brownsvile
mob lynched a man active in the local
branch of the NAACP because that branch
took lead having Negroes register
and vote. A Brownsville mob drove out of
town a minister who is president of that
NAACP branch, a man who has lived his
entire life of 55 years in the town and was
known to everyone. The mob also drove out.
the father of seven children, a man who
owns and operates a gasoline filling station,
steady, dependable citizen whose only
"crime" was joining an organization and
trying to exercise his rights as a citizen
and a voter.
8
Violence Used as Club
This means that lynching is a club to
keep the Negro from enjoying his civil lib-
erties. That is why it must be stamped out.
That is why no Negro with even a milli-
gram of bruins can say that the fight for
an anti-lynching bill ought to stop. Until
have machinery which will begin to
stamp out lynching, which will remove this
sword from over the heads of our people in
countless communities in the South. it is
useless to talk of being "free" to do any-
thing.
we
Negroes Are Not Bad
Mind you, these Brownsville Negroes are
not "bad characters." They are not loafers,
robbers, rapists, murderers. They are citi-
zens who have been industrious, decent,
thrifty. home-loving. They have no records
with the police.
But they wanted to vote, to have some-
thing to say about who rules over them.
They wanted to help choose a President of
these United States. So gangs armed with
shotguns, ropes, whips and pistols drove up
to their doors. yanked them from their
homes, drove them out of town. One man
paid with his life.
With all our yawping about the horrors
of Hitlerism, there stands Brownsville,
Tenn., U.S.A.. in June, 1940.
Not only have the Brownsville hoodlums
in their vicious ignorance brought lynching
back into the news, but they may have fur-
nished the very ammunition which will send
the Democrats down to defeat in the No-
vember election.
is
For this situation involves the right of |
franchise. The greatest quarrel Negroes
have with the Democratic party is that in
the section of the country where it
supreme. it refuses to let the Negro vote.
The next greatest quarrol of Negroes with ;
the Democrats is that they have bowed to
the southern wing of the party and side-
tracked the anti-lynching bill.
Politicians Used Power
It took everything Mr Roosevelt and
northern Democrats could do in the way of
patronage, relief, etc. to hold the brother
in line and he was never really in line, only
tarrying a while, with a justifiable suspici-
ous eye on the southern sector.
Now Brownsville, thinking only of its
small principality, has upset the apple-cart
by shoving to the front the two most deli-
cate issues between the Democratic party
and the million or two badly-needed Negro
votes in the vital northern and middle west-
ern states.
The Democrats could pass the anti-
lynching bill. They could get busy in Ten-
nessee and clean up the Brownsville mess,
registering Negroes as voters, returning the
exiles to guaranted safety, and punishing
the lynchers of Elbert Williams. But the
Democrats are not that smart. Mr. Roose-
velt is, the Kelly-Nash machine in Chicago
is, and Mr Farley is. But the southern sen-
ators are almost as dumb as the Browns-
ville mob. They would rather turn over the
multi-billion-dollar Federal patronage to the
Republican party than punish lynchers or
let Negroes vote.Brownsville
