Пn
In the big ROAD ROAD big the In
W
WALKER · O ·
I am not one of those persons who waited until Pearl Harbor to
work up a distaste for the Japanese. When the Japs started their con-
quest of China, I was hard and fast against them. In fact, there has
always been something about those little men from the island that has
made me rather suspicious of them. Their imitation of white jingoism
has never set well with me.
t
All the while I was incubating my distaste of the Japs, white
America was opening their arms to them. They could travel the length
e and breath of this land and meet every courtesy. They could go to
e West Point and Annapolis and be received. They displaced our people
in many jobs, American business firms sold them billions in goods and
supplies.
1
I think the Japs have forfeited any consideration to mercy by their
war-like character and the ruthlessness of persecution of the Chinese.
I hope the allied nations crush Japan just as throughly and completely
1 as they do Hitler.
$
This is a grim struggle we are in. However, I was forced to raise
an eyebrow the other day when the stately Secretary of State Cordell
Hull of Tennessee was quoted in the daily papers as condemning the
drastic discriminatory move against all white people by the Japs. He
charged Japan with "descending to the lowest possible level of animal
savagery" in threatening to shoot any white persons found on the
7 streets of Manila.
3
}
}
I couldn't help but think of that passage in St. John that says:
He that is without sin among you, let him cast a stone.' Of all people to
call the Japs inhuman and acouse them of discrimination, a southerner
should be the last. I could appreciate such an admonition from any-
one but the stately Mr. Hull.
}
While my memory may not be very good, I can recall so many in-
stances right in Mr. Hull's Tennessee, where his friends and neighbors
committed so many more inhuman acts against Negroes than the Japs
are committing against whites in Manila, and yet the public press has
never recorded a single protest from him against those who conimitted
those atrocities.
I recall once a church in Dyersburg, Tenn., dismissed all the male
members one Sunday morning so they could participate in a lynching
of a Negro nearby. Mr. Hull, I think, was in. Congress then. Just a
few years ago,
an infuriated mob, incensed because the sheriff in a
Tennessee town made a show of protecting a Negro prisoner, burned
down the County Court House and Jail with the loss of important rec-
ords. A Negro lawyer recently went to one of Mr. Hull's county seats
to file a divorce petition. The white neighbors of Mr. Hull, incensed
over the audacity of a Negro lawyer attempting to do such a thing,
ran the lawyer out of town. A white lawyer had to be hired to handle
the case.
When "Boss" Crump of Memphis was terrorising Negro business
and professional men with his Gestapo, not a word of protest emanated
form the State Department in Washington. Yet, all the persons mo-
lested were truly American citizens.
During all of these outrages, Secretary Hull was ominous silent.
Civilization was not endangered as he saw it. When a Georgia mob
lynched a pregnant Negro mother and while she dangled from the end
of a rope, her unborn child was ripped from her belly by one of the
lynchers and the faint cries of the child were stilled when the lynch-
er's heel crushed its skull, no charge of human or animal savagery
come from Mr. Hull nor any of his southern cohorts. All we could
hear were their voices raised against Sie Dyer anti-lynching bill and
all the other anti-lynching bills that followed.
It is surprising how loud these southerners can boller when the
shoe is pinching their foot. I deplore inhuman treatment of any per-
son or race of people. It is indeed unfortunate that America has stood
for so much savagery within its own borders that, now when it cries
to the high heavens about the treatment of its white citizens, its
enemies can so conveniently point to its own sins.
}
The white citizens the Japs are now menacing, of course haven't
committed any crime to justify their treatment. Neither did the thous-
ands of Negroes who have been outraged both in the North and South
commit any crimes to justify their lynching and burning at the stake.
No doubt the Germans and Japs learned much of their horrible tech-
nique from Mr. Hull's southern buddies.
I hope America learns from this war that, decent treatment of
human beings, like charity, must beĝin at home.
I received the following poem the other day from a young man
and I think it fits in very well with this admonition to Mr. Hull and his
ilk in America.
"GOD MADE US ALL”
God made the White Man..
He made the Black Man too,
So should there be a difference
Expressed between the two-
Should one's rights be taken
To the jobs that are so few———
Should one man obtain a position
And bar all others in view-
From a man whose only ambition
Is his right--a chance to do?
God made the White Man
He made the Black Man too,
And he gave them intelligence
And did neither overdo-
KŠ
%
But, rather, gave each a section
To do in as he'd choose.
Both had a task of missions
Before their work was through,
And they were quite religious.
Did their best—a little more too.
God made the White Man
He made the Black Man too,
And they can help one another
If they'll cooperate real soon---
The White Man made the New World
But it's destined to be doomed,
To the darkest of destructions
And probably to utter ruin-
If he doesn't recognize the Black Man
Who helped him make it too.
God made the White Man
He made the Black Man too,
He made both in His likeness
He made them perfect too.
So doesn't it stand to reason
Our acting like this won't do---
If we'd carry on His lessons
To live a life that's true
And do by our Fellow Man
As we'd like-for Him to do.
-By Eugene M. Owens
$
(
