The Indianapolis Woman- Killing
Somewhat More
Than Usual Horrible.
Birth of the Butchered Wife's
Infant Her Death-
During Struggles.
Deportment of the Husband Now
Under Arrest for
Deed. the
Other Matters Now Making Indiana's
Capital Centre of Oriminal
the Intelligence.
Fpecial Dispatch to The Tribune
REVOLTING CRIME.
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind., Sept. 23- Further developments
in the murder of the woman whose
body was found under a log three miles west
of this city on Sunday afternoon show it to
have been one of peculiar horror. The corpen
was identified by the teeth and other parts as
that of Mrs. Merrick, formerly Julia l'aul,
daughter of a well- to- do fariner living near Wa-
verly, Morgan County, and wife of William
Merrick, a livery- stable proprietor. At 3 o'clock
this morning Merrick was arrested for the
crimo while in bed over his stable.
Ilo Was overcome when the officers
woke him, and, in to
answer qиск-
tions about his wife, said' ho
had driven out with her on Friday or Saturday
evening of the week before, and had not seen
lier since. Ilis story was that he had gone with
his wife to a colored neighborhood known as
" Bucktown," where she and a colored woman
went to the house of a midwife, Mrs. Merrick
being near confinement. He had neither seen
her since nor had he gone to see her, but the
colored woman bad brought reports of her condition
twice to him, she staying at the
midwife's to bo confined.. When told
that the body of his wife had been
found dead, he exclaimed," My God! I
told her not to go with that nigger wench."
The stable boy remembered that Merrick had
gone out with his wife on Saturday evening,
Sept. 18( 1), leaving word that he himself would
attend to putting the horse up when he returned
, and that he did not get back until late
in the night. Several articles of his wife's
clothing were found in Merrick's bedroom, and
a shawl under his pillow. These have been
Identified as the clothing the wife wore that
night. Merrick was taken to the Coroner's inquest
, and, when shown the teeth, burst into
tears and said they looked like his wife's, but he
did not identify the remains, and to a reporter
afterwards at the jatt said the body found was
too tall for his wife, and that he believed his
wife was in the city, and he could produce her.
He was taken to Bucktown," but failed to
point out the midwife, or to find the negro girl
in whose company he claims to have left his
wife. Testimony before the Coroner shows
that the infant was born either during the
death struggle or afterward, the umbilicus not
being sovered. In the opinion of experts. the
bodles had been dead about eight days.
The murdered woman was a rather fluo-
Jooking 130 of of
woman, years age,
good education. having taught school and
music for a living. She became estranged
from her father's family years ago, but had always
borne a good reputation. Merrick se.
duced her, and married hier somo weeks ago to
compromise a bastardy sult. Ile abandoned
her, however, and she began divorce proceed;
Ings. Ile got her to withdraw this suit and
lived with her until the fatil evening. Mrs.
Merrick told her counsel that Merrick hai
taken her out riding after their marriage to the
Very spot where the body Was found,
and lind Bald ho ouglit to drown her
It she got what she deserved. He
had been very brutal, and on more than one
occasion threatened to kill her. Little doubt is
entertained of the mon's quilt, and intense feeling
exists. In view of the frequency of murders
lately and the repeated commutations of sentences
by Gov. Williams, there have been many
expressions in favor of Lynch law in this case.
Excited crowds have througed the strects all
day in front of the Coroner's office, and it would
not be surprising if some' demonstration would
be made, providing Alerrick's guilt is made
clear beyond peradventure. It is believed that
more than one person was concerned in the
murder, and the police are on the track of tho
supposed accomplices of Merrick.
Special Dispatch to The Tribune
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind., Bept. 23. In the case of
William B. Wall against Judge Palmer, of
Boone, and the Clinton Circuit Court, the Supreme
Court to- day declinea to reverse l'alm-
er's order for disbartuent. Vall la the notorious
attorney of Lebanon who some months
ago published that Palmer had been bribed to
givo Judgment in the case of Mrs. Nancy E.
Clem, charged with the Cold Springs tuurder,
by which she was released and is now at large.
Wall's practice for years has been fearfully bad,
and in a before Judge l'almer and a jury
ho was disbarred trial.
Quotl, who murdered, the Spencer House
waiter- girl last week, is playing the crazy dodge,
and making feeble efforts to take bis own life.
In the present temper of the people he will vet
the death penalty, and if there should be such
a thing as Lynch law he will go with Merrick.
It is not improbable that a public meeting will
be held to consider the question of order and
safety, and denounce the lux administration
and execution to of the law.
