ANNISTON FREE
FROM MOB SPIRIT
Tread of the Soldier Still Heard
But All is Quiet
BAKER MAY BE WRONG MAN
Crowd Which Formed the Mob Was
Not Composed of Anniston People
, But Came From the
Surrounding County.
BY HOWARD S. WILLIAMS.
Anniston, November 8 .-( Special.)- The
measured tread of marching soldiers is
still heard in Anniston tonight, but
everything is quiet and orderly.
The negro, Baker, suspected of being
the person who, on Wednesday afternoon,
assaulted Mrs. Williams, occupies a cell
in the county jail which is guarded by
soldiers of the Alabama National Guard.
No attempts were made by any mob
today to take the negro from the jail.
The crowd which brought Baker here
Friday morning was composed of men
who live in the vicinity of Alexandria,
seven miles from Anniston and the scene
of the crime.
The story of how a negro entered the
home of John Williams is harrowing.
Williams is a farmer and has a farm in
the famous Alexandria valley, near the
town of Alexandria. Wednesday afternoon
a negro went to the house and ask-
ed Mrs. Williams for something to eat,
Mr. Williams being away at the time.
Mrs. Williams was the only one in the
house, with the exception of a 2- year- old
baby, who clung to its mother as she
went to the kitchen to get the negro
food. The negro followed the woman
into the kitchen, when he grabbed a flat
iron and wielding it aloft brought it
down upon the woman's head, crushing
the skull and rendering his victim unconscious
. Blood splattered in every direction
, and the little child, standing
near, was besprinkled with the life blood
of its mother.
The intruder then ransacked the house,
securing 12 in money from a trunk, and
fled.$
Posse Made Search.
A posse was soon formed and a search
made. One was suspected and
negro
taken to the Williams home, where Mrs.
Williams, after she regained consciousness
, said he was not the right party.
Physicians consider the condition of the
woman as very dangerous. At times she
is conscious, and at others she lapses into
an unconscious state.
Thursday the negro Baker was suspected
, as it was said he had been near the
house on the day the crime was committed
. He was taken in charge by a
searching party and carried to the Wil-
liams home. The doctors stated that Mrs.
Williams was in a sane and conscious
state and the negro was taken before
her for identification. She could not say
he was the party, but did not say he was
not, so Friday morning the crowd took
Baker to Anniston. A crowd immediately
collected and there was talk of lynching,
but the sheriff and prominent citizens
mounted a buggy in front of the county
jail and urged reason and patience. Upon
a promise that he would keep the negro
in jail here the crowd turned him over
to the sheriff. The crowd dispersed and
those who lived at Alexandria went
home. In a few hours, however, a large
number of excited men gathered in front
of the jail, and some in the party declared
they would override the sheriff and
his deputies, and take the negro from
his cell.
Sheriff Woodruff immediately wired
Governor Jelks, asking him to give him
authority to order out the troops. This
was done, the governor in replying saying
that he would hold Sheriff Woodruff
responsible for the life of the negro. The
officer made a bold stand, and told the
crowd they would not get the prisoner.
This is where the mob spirit began,
for the other crowd had gone away
when it was understood Mrs. Williams
could not identify Baker.
The Anniston Rifles were ordered under
arms, and at once assembled in their
armory. Next orders were given to the
Oxford. Maj .. Joe
Calhoun Rifles of
Daniels the Second battalion taking
command of of all the troops.
Crowd Grew Larger.
At 4 o'clock in the afternoon the An-
niston company reported at the jail, as
the crowd there was growing larger. In
an hour more the Calhoun Rifles reported
. The crowd would not fall back,
and it was necessary to charge on the
mob with bayonets. This had its effect,
and the people fell back.
Orders were sent to the Talladega and
Gadsden Rifles an dthey arrived about
8 o'clock. The Gadsden company was
met by a crowd at the depot, but no
trouble resulted.
At 10 o'clock all of the battalion was
on the scene, and sixteen pickets were
placed around the jail.
A crowd formed in West Anniston, but
it was soon known that the soldiers were
armed to the teeth, and this to a great
extent kept down any further demonstration
.
The soldiers will probably be here until
Monday, but further developments
must decide what steps will be taken.
Many people here are inclined to think
Baker is the wrong man. He was seen
today in his cell and admitted passing
the Williams home on Wednesday, but
said he did
not stop. He was badly
frightened. He will be kept in jail untu
Mrs. Williams gets better. As to her
condition it is thought by the doctors to
be very dangerous, the wound on the
head being an ugly one.
Soldiers Having Experience.
The soldiers are now having practical
experience. Guard mount is held, and the
troops are obeying strict orders. It is
impossible for anyone to cross the lines.
unless passed by the officers of the
Guard.
The boys sleep in the jail, the warden's
quarters and the city hall, a half a block
away. They march by companies to their
meals at a hotel, four blocks from the
jail.
The better class of people of Annis-
ton and Calhoun county deplore the fact
that a mob gathered here to try to lynch
a man, especially as he had not even
been identified. The crowd was made
up of the rougher element of the town, it
is said, and some of them became excited
and drew on their imaginations.
Most of the citizens want the law to
take its course, and they sincerely hope
that the better judgment of cooler heads
will prevail.
It is quiet in this city now, and as long
as the militia remains in town there is
no danger of any determined attempt being
made to take Baker from the jail.
The military companies deserve praise
for the manner in which they responded.
Not a company reported with less than
twenty men, and only one of the four
had more than one hour's notice.
The Anniston Rifles are in charge of
Captain Shelnutt, the Oxford company of
Captain Smith, the Gadsden company of
Captain Echols and the Talladega
pany of Captain Burr. com-
