A Model Governor.
W We do not think that we have for many
a day seen anything so marked by
cold- blooded heartlessness and devilish
Imalice as the article from the Knoxville
Whig, which we print in another column,
and which is manifestly from the pen of
Parson Brownlow, Governor of Tennes-
see.
It seems that a few days ago a Federal
officer, Hall, and a Confederate soldier,
Baker, who had had a difficulty of long
standing, met in the streets of Knoxville;
that Hall assaulted Baker with a cane,
and, after he had broker. it upon him, attempted
to escape by running away:
that Baker shot him as he ran; that Hall
died a few hours afterward; that Baker
was arrested and put in jail, and that a
mob took him out and hung him the same
night, despite the entreaties of the father
of the man that was killed.
About all this we should have little to
say, for lawlessness of this character, and
the murder of returned Confederates by
Union fanatics is so common in the
States of Missouri, Kentucky and Ten-
nessee, that they excite very little attention
nowadays, and demand no comment
should be false to
hands But we
at our
our duty as journalists, if we were not to
express the abhorance with which we
have been inspired by the conduct of the
Reverend Governor of Tennessee in this
matter.
This man, writing in his own paper, in
the very place where was committed
this terrible outrage upon the laws, laws
which he was sworn to defend, and which,
in au unhappy day for Tennessee, he was
elected to execute; this man, writing
under such circumstances, has the miserable
effrontery not only to justify and glory
in the lawless violence of the mob that
murdered Baker, but to say in terms, the
meaning of which cannot be mistaken,
that he has no power to protect any re
turned Confederate from the malignant
passions of the East Tennessee loyalists,
and to remind the latter that they can
safely wreak their vengeance and hatred
upon the poor unfortunates, whose in-
pardonable offense is that they will persist
in saying that they have been" over
powered but not convinced," for, says he
with significant malice and with a keen
perception of the cowardliness of mobs,
" there are only one hundred and thirty
six of them in the whole country," and I
shall not protect them.
We hope the day will quickly come
that shall relieve Tennessee from such a
monster- N. Y. News.
GUNS. AND PISTOLS.
