UP. STRUNG MEN FOUR
Murders. Check Seek to
Citizens of Siskiyou County
YREKA. AT HANGING MIDNIGHT
A Negro Murderer Lynched in Ken-
tucky The Eleventh Durrant
- Juror Obtained.
Yreka, Cal., Aug. 26- As a ghastly ell-
max of the reign of lawlessness in Siski-
you county for many months past, the
bodies of four accused murderers lay this
morning on the floor of the fire engine
house in the old mining town of Yreka.
It was evident that Judge Lynch and his
jurors had been at work during the night,
and their verdict was" death by hanging"
to four miserable wretches in the county
jail.
The victims are: Lawrence Johnson,
who on July 28 stabbed his wife to death
in the town of Etna; William Null, who
shot Henry Hayter in the back near Cal-
lahan's April 21, and Louis Moreno and
Garland Semler, who are supposed to have
George Sears and Casper Meirer-
killed hans at Bailey Hill August 5.
About 9 o'clock stragglers now and then
caught a glimpse of dark objects moving
around the suburbs of the town, but nothing
was thought of it. The dark objects
thickened, until about midnight they assumed
the shape of silent and stern men
either on horseback or afoot. At midnight
a prearranged plan or signal drew a
small army of 250 men into the vicinity of
the courthouse square, while sentinels
were placed throughout the town to ward
off danger of discovery by the officers.
The fire bells were tide up, the night
watchmen sent to parts of town on
sham errands, and other stragglers detained.
At 1 o'clock the avengers of justice prepared
to carry out their plans. An old rall
was taken from the depot and stretched
between two trees in the courthouse park.
Then was begun the descent upon the jail.
A demand was made upon Deputy Sheriff
Radford for the keys, but he did not yield.
Henry Bratlaucht, who was sleeping in
the jail, heard the commotion, opened the
door to see what the trouble was, and was
at once seized by the mob. The doors were
then forced open, and Johnson, Null, Sem-
ler and Moreno were marched out to the
court yard. The condemned men were
stolid, and took their fate without a murmur
, with the exception of young Semler,
who begged piteously for mercy. His age
is 19. It is said the scene was heartrending
as young Semler broke forth in agonizing
appeal, and cried out:" Tell my dear
old mother I am innocent of the crime."
Sheriff Hobbs had given secret orders, in
case any attempt at lynching was made,
to ring the fire bells and rouse the citizens
, but the mob had anticipated this,
and had laid their plans well. Every person
about the streets in the vicinity of the
jail was stopped. S. F. Miles and Sam
Roop were going to the house of the latter's
mother, and were held at the scene
of the hanging. Nearly every section of
the county was represented in the mob.
In fact, ever since Null's cold- blooded
murder of Henry Hayter lynching was
freely talked of in the western end of the
county, and when Johnson killed his wife
the avenging spirit kept on fermenting.
After the Bailey Hill murder the feeling
reached a dangerous stage.
During the lynching some one awoke
Sheriff Hobbs, who hurried down town.
As he was going through the courthouse
park a Winchester was stuck in his face
and he was compelled to stand where he
was. The whole affair was carefully arranged
and well executed, and not over
twenty minutes elapsed from the time the
keys were surrendered the mob rode
swiftly out of town. until
The lynching can in no way reflect upon
the officers of the court. The information
In the Null case was filed on May 22, and
under his plea of innocence the law gave
him the right to send wherever necessary
to secure depositions in support of his defense
, which could not be done in less
time than allowed by the court. This was
the only one of the four cases which was
at issue before the superior court. In the
case of Johnson there was a demurrer to
the information, which was to be argued
this week. The other prisoners, Stemler
and Moreno, were to have had their preliminary
examinations tomorrow, it having
been necessary to postpone them to
that date in order to allow the attorney
to prepare a defense.
All day the excitement throughout Sis-
kiyou county has been intense, although
not of condemnation on the part of the
lynchers, as the general impression is
that Judge Lynch's sentence was a severe
though just one. Especially in Yreka has
excitement run high, people coming from
all sections of the county to view the
ghastly result of the midnight raid on the
county jail. The coroner's jury today
rendered a verdict that Johnson, Null,
Moreno and Stemler came to their death
by strangulation at the hands of parties
unknown to the jury. The only sympathy
felt is for Stemler, on account of his
youth. The chances are of the
lynchers will be apprehended none.
