FOOD FOR THE GIBBET
Robert Day, Cowlitz Murderer,
Sentenced Death. to
ANOTHER MURDERER LUCKIER.
Die. rades and One Will
A Moscow Gambler Shoots Two Com-
Ex- Real Estate Broker of Sumner Ab-
sconds- A Port Townsend Editor Dis-
Arrested Monsters Human appears
for Exhibiting.
KALAMA, Dec. 16 .-[ Special.]- In the
case of the state against Robert Thompson
Day, convicted of murder in the first degree
for the killing of Thomas Clinton
Beebe on October 9, the last motion for a
new trial was denied, and tonight the
prisoner was sentenced by Judge Bloom-
field to hang, the date of execution to be
named hereafter and to take place at
Kalama, in not less than thirty nor more
than ninety days from date. The attorney
for defendant gave notice of an appeal
the supreme court. to
[ Thomas C. Beebe, the victim, was 24 years
old, and was killed at a logging camp near
Woodlawn, Cowlitz county, Wash., on Friday
night, October 9, by a man named Day. In the
afternoon young Beebe had a difficulty with
Day's sou about some COWs that were
destroying Beebe's corn, and slapped
young Day's face. That evening the elder
Day, who is a ranchman, called at Beebe's camp
and asked him to walk down the road with him.
The two proceeded about half a mile along the
road, talking over the difficulty, when Day suddenly
turned around, and drawing his revolver,
shot Beebe through the body, the ball entering
the right side and coming out on the left, passing
through both lungs. A boy who had
joined the party saw the shooting. Day
turned upon him ant made an attempt to
kill him also, but his pistol failed to discharge.
The boy reached Woodlawn, where he reported
the killing of Beebe. Day fled to the woods, but
was captured the next morning by a constable.
A mob gathered to lynch Day, but the constable
took his prisoner over the river into Clarke
county, and brought him by a circuitous route
to Kalama. Day has a bad record. He was a
guerrilla during the war, and boasts of having
killed thirty men while in that service. He told
a Portland young man who saw him at Kalama
shortly after the murder that he had shot men
just to see them fail It is said that he has
killed three men since. the war.]
