many others, left that institution a year or two since controversy
because they were not permitted to agitate on the sub-
of abolition, has been seized by a mob, near his place" I am
residence in Kentucky, and dreadfully whipped- quarrel with
having received 30 lashes on his bare back, so heavily last year-
on that they nearly cost him his life. The letters so. As the
, that he would actually have been murdered but for ters will see
interference of some gentleinen, more moderate than will not
rest, who insisted that he had already got enough.- for a disclaimed
Thom was one of the speakers at the abolition anni- FRENCH
versary in this city in May last, and has also held forth quiries as
various other places at the North and East. What had on
have been his course in Kentucky, on the subject of one of interest
abolition, we are not informed.- N. Y. Com. general
SCARECROW.- The residents in Brighton- street and and ratified
taken out
vicinity were a good deal alarmed yesterday morning, on
discovering a gallows erected in front of Mr. Garrison's Havre on
, accommodated with cords, arranged with hang- departed,
' knots and all that sort of thing, a l'aimable- as effect which
execution were to be" done on Cawdor." It bore the vernment.
superscription," By order of Judge Lynch." It excited be deemed
considerable curiosity, and attracted a host of idlers, but ready due
occasioned no excitement, although it produced much matter is
merriment. It was taken down about half past 10, in- favorable
slaughter. It reminded us of a verse of it would be
nocent of
Sophomore poetry, that we used to repeat once with a pose that
deal of gusto, descriptive of the blazonry, or what States Gazette
" wise fools" thought ought to have been the es-
VENO
cutcheon of the College, to wit:
sirous
Two sticks rampant,
a Journeyman
One stick couchant,
the entire
One rope pendant,
dustrious
Ashur on the end on't.
But this rope And had nothing" on the end on't," and that be able to
this rope had nothing" on the end on't," and that be able
tion. A
the rhyme.- Boston Transcript.
Mr. Birney's intended Abolition publication, in capital
the Southern Advocate( of Huntsville, Alabama, very good
Mr. Birney formerly resided,) says:" James G.
N. B.
, Esquire, has abandoned the project of publishing
Abolition paper in Danville, Ky., and has removed to penters,
Clarksville
Cincinnati. A very good idea."
RY
Through the agency of a friend we are enabled to
below to our readers the preliminary remarks of Merchants
Parker, charging the Grand Jury for this county; terms as
Monday last. The views entertained and expressed
Judge, are such as the times and the condition of September
