, has the honor of being the birth- place
the home of Phil Waters, one of the most invet- cibly deprived
day to the
practical jokers the world has ever produced; shared a
that Phil was a rough- and- tumble sort of a felon
the
who delighted in such low, practical jokes, as resolved
ringing of door- bells the calling up of the old
on a cold winter's night to see a sick female, preacher,
cordingly
after leading him for two or three miles
It was
the snow in the woods, to declare that and although
must be mistaken. Not such a joker was shone out
Waters, but a nice, quiet, unobtrusive, mod- that pearly
young man, that would have passed muster a- tomb; for
a host of ministerial candidates. Phil had and the
chemistry, and it was his special delight to It was a
a cause and watch its chemical effect on his de- barns and
victim.
far from Phil's paternal mansion was situated ple by the
And yet
BAcademy, or, as the villagers called it, three
College." Among the students of which num- from shore
Phil was one -- at the Academy, was a young assemb led
from North Carolina, named Morris Kenny, Mormons
had imbibed with his mother's milk a strong faith would
aversion to a black man. To him a" nigger" was be fresh
object of special aversion.
Shortly he had after the good Morris fortune Kenny's or misfortune arrival at to the become Col imaginations in their
face such
intimate with Phil Waters, so much so, that a day included
not pass that the two were not together. To and many
Morris imparted all his feeling of aversion to
blacks, and would talk for hours at a time on the grasped
curse of being born a negro. Coming from the prayer-
, Morris's complexion did not rival" love's lilly or imagined
The
;" his dark, curly hair and small features first
to a thrilling
Phil to think of giving his friend a lesson on his
painting
antipathy.
project was no sooner formed than executed. which has
had read but little, had a boundless creduli- forms, since
and would listen with rapt attention to Phil's had he
quotations from authors, which no one but him- is blue
ever had the pleasure of reading; to be sure he like a
gave his author's name and the page of the over the
, but the library at B was not fortunate erally loaded
to contain all the works that Phil had read, shrieks,
er of his
especially those he quoted from.
Suddenly
Singular circumstances, is it not?" remarked
one evening, when in company with several oth- before the
students, of which number Morris was one." Sin- terror,
circumstances, is it not, that Raffingsparfer the mob!
No person
mentions in his history of North America that the
,
fusion that
inhabitants of the South have been known to turn all hope
black, on being removed to a more temperate out of the
."
ils while
God bless my soul! who says that?" exclaimed,
pefied and
, springing from his seat.
ready for
Raffingsparfer repeated Phil the fifty fourth
""
-
,,
lowed for
of the second volume, under the head of" Strange bering
Phenomenon.""
the muzzles
Yes, indeed, Morris, my boy, did you never hear
before?" cried Charley Johns." Why man,
within lifted
know that I have been watching most
your
turned them
interesting physiognomy attentively for the past hardened
weeks, to see the great change come over the the since
of thy face, as Byron says, or should have
ly in the
"
Morris made no reply, but the bait had taken, the and Presently gigantic
had entered his soul.
the people
day, Phil found him looking over the library
Raffingsparfer's History of the N. American very little
," which, unfortunately, he found Phil had The cries
der than
to a particular friend for a few days.
night Phil obtained from the village apoth- length Col.
Turn
some nut- galls, in a solution of which he wash-
Morris's towel, and then returned it to the wash- us have the
ers!"
There are few that don't know that when a
And the
is washed in a solution of nut- galls and dried,
possesses the power to turn the skin black when execute the
Up to
on it; not black at once, but slowly and surely with the
retiring for the night, Phil looked in Morris's
and found him reading an old catalogue of the earthly pale
in the British Museum, and declared he could ed, and his
Suddenly
find Raffingsparfer's name among the authors.
Never mind," said Phil," my copy will be at and
next week, and then we'll know all about it. to seize him
" Chase
goodness! Morris, how dark you look this even- cried Turk
not been fishing in the sun, I hope!"
Fishing! sun! dark! eh? O Lord! Phil, what ple by
The flight
mean? O, no, I'm not," exclaimed the poor
for the river
Southerner rushing to his mirror" Very joke
poor
the start
,
white before
,
looked so
.
very poor indeed, never
life," and then he spoke the truth, for Phil tance ahead
frightened him, that his complexion would at him as
he came
compared favorbly to a" bit of chalk."
ily fastened
Well," says Phil," I may be mistaken, but see-
in his pocket
believing," you know.- Good night, I'll see you
ny emergency
prayers in the morning."
Morris retired for the night, after determining to over the
wind.
early in the morning and take a bath to prove
" Has
that his complexion was improving. Early
morning he performed the operation much to striking
vexation.
own satisfaction, and wiping himself dry on the
" I have
Phil had prepared with nut- gall, he strolled them on
into the fields to take an airing before the morn-
" Be quick
service. After walking about for half an hour,
a tone of
turned his steps towards the College, deeply pon-
The skates
in his mind if Raffingsparfer could be correct.
this time the nut- gall had taken effect on his them on;
complexion, and he had gone through all the differ- bring back
stages of negrodom- very light yellow- mush began the
molasses, a dark cherry- a light walnut color- like the
In the
now was in the last stage, a confirmed darkee.
had not got fifty yards towards the College, ther shore
he met the daughters of one of the professors. tion of
one of these ladies he had a kind of softness; what it
it had never existed as yet, save in looks. mons from
, then, how astonished he was to see them the river.
over the road as he came towards them, and stream,
made one of his captivating bows, to have no the distance
taken of his polite salute, and to hear one of lets rattled
" I will
remark:
declare, sis, if that negro man did not bow to put forth
became
wonder what the impudent fellow means?"
He slacked
doubt old Priam was astonished to hear that
to obtain
was on fire and none of the b'hoys ready to put still too
; Caesar was rather astonished when he saw
advancing to tickle him under the ribs. Mr. mon uttered
Macbeth has been seen to express considerable sur- that it be
, and justly so, to see that" dagger in the On rushed
" as our friend Dobb says, but the essence of lanch.
astonishment added together, could not equal above the
sum total of Morris, when he heard himself call- form loomed
stature as
negro.
Raffinsparfer was right, Phil was not joking, preacher
a stern, an indubitable truth, he was a nig- arch persecutor
the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the a laugh
, burst on his mind at once, with such over- scoff of
his gleaming
whelming that he had to catch hold of
a post
power,
his
it struck him own
support himself. The next moment
might be a joke, and that he was not black. With the coming
speed of lightning, he started for the College, tal, by the
And then
the turnpike, through the lane, and into the
he dashed like a four year old Mazeppa, his olutions to
considerably accelerated by some fond moth- of combat
marked
future ragged" hope" shouting after him,
elipses,
Go it, darkey, I'll hold your hat!"
sooner had he entered the hall of the College every possible
the dreadful truth was but too evident for him seemed a
doubt. In a mirror on the wall he saw the reflec- at fault,
of his face, which was by this time a beautiful peatedly
black. The scream he gave would have done quick thrusts
to Squire" Metamora." the cold
students had assembled for morning prayers, howled on
friend Phil among the rest; the professor had how carried
reading the morning lesson, and had said, crusted ice
us pray," when the scream penetrated in their neath their
Finally
and next moment the door burst open and in
bounded Morris. terminate
, it's true! it's true! I'm a nigger! I'm a nig- make sure
Raffinsparfer's right! I'm a nigger! O, mighty! the following
black as jet, turned in a night! Lord forgive my a direct
and mother for sending me from home! As Lyncher
as coal! as black as coal!" and overcome with right line
horror of his situation, the poor black man faint- They
that of the
away.
professor at once, in elegant phraseology, of their
a rat," an inquiry was instituted, our friend weight with
was detected and received a severe reprimand. ing and
Morris's natural color was soon restored, and as -the
as it was safe for him to venture South, there But the
one student less at B- Whatever regret he stars all
at parting, was overcome by hearing the old por- the morning
remark as he left the hall," There goes Phil Wa- chaunted
nigger!"- Flag of our Union. winter,
now no more
" office seeker" somewhere" down East," into
apply for the place of" Minister Extraordi- A coffin
to that unknown alluded to in Gen. Tay- bills announcing
Message" the rest people of Mankind." window,'
