A Disgraceful Seene -- The Mob at Peoria,
Illinois.
Some days ago we had an account( by telegraph)
of some disgraceful proceedings at Peoria, a mob
having attempted to hang two prisoners who were
in jail there under sentence of death for murder.
The Peoria Republican gives the following particulars
of the disgraceful affair:
It is generally known that we have two young
men confined in our county jail, under sentence of
death for the murder of a Mr. Hewitt in October
,
,
last. The day fixed by the Court for their execú-
tion was the 20th instant. The time given them
to prepare for death was felt to be short; but it was
about the limit assigned by the law, unless for
cause shown, the Court or Governor might prolong
it. Special application being made to the Governor
, that functionary postponed the execution of
the sentence until the 15th day of January next.
Unfortunately, this application was made only a
few days before the time set by the Court had expired
, and the respite was not known here soon
enough to certify the public at a distance of the
change.
On the evening of the 19th, the unusual concourse
of people from a distance gave token of the
anticipated event which had called them from their
homes. Dissatisfaction at the postponement of the
execution began to be manifested. People who had
left their business and come a long way to see two
men hung, were not to be deprived of the sight
with impunity. One unhappy man had, it seems,
now twice in his life, walked all night to see somebody
hung, and was a second time to fall short of
his lofty aspiration! It was too much. Such sore
bereavements in a free country were intolerable.
It was, therefore, determined that, law or no law,
the hanging must come off. Menaces to this effect
did not at first create apprehension; as it was
thought incredible that, whether to gratify a depraved
appetite for carnage, or an idle curiosity,
or upon the pretence of meting out justice to the
guilty, men in this land would openly and wan-
fonly defy the law, stain their hands in human
blood, and incur the guilt of the murderer! Hence,
doubtless, it was that no sufficient organization for
the defence was effected in time by the proper
officers.
On the morning of the 20th, the crowds from the
country increased, and directed their course towards
the jai !; soon a vast throng was there concentrated
. The prisoners were demanded of the
sheriff; but there was as yet little concert of action,
and no acknowledged leader.
In the meantime, a gallows was erected on the
opposite side of the street fronting the jail- the
haiters prepared and fastened to their places-
every thing arranged, even to the hangman's
noose, that the business might proceed whenever
the prisoners were brought forth. There was a
rope for each; but it is said that( by way of luxury
perhaps) George was to be hanged first, and
Tom obliged to stand by and look on, that the amiable
executioners might the better regale themselves
upon the agony which the sight and his
own impending doom would awaken.
But not to extend this detail too far, it must suffice
to say, that despite the efforts of a few inside
and some outside, who were anxious to arrest proceedings
, the door of the jail was burst in, and the
hall, up to the cells of the victims, filled with the
mob. Here the strength of the cell door brought
them to a halt. Beams of timber, crow bars, stones
and sledges, did the work, however, and the entrance
to both cells was effected. George was
caught praying, and brought into the hall to await
the capture of Tom.
Here a slight obstacle again intervened. Tom
had concluded not to be taken. While the mob
was at work without, he had managed to dig a stone
from the floor of his cell, which he slid into the
leg of a pair of cast off breeches, and stood on the
defensive. But when the door was burst in, it
seems he was taken a little by surprise, and some
of the rabble entered. His adroitness, however,
and the use of his slung shot, enabled him to get
rid of them. He then posted himself at the door,
which being low and narrow, but one could enter
at a time, and as fast as any one attempted it, he
paid the forfeit. Three or four of them were
knocked down, and the skull of one of them broken.
Instruments of defence and attack were procured,
but those he managed to capture, and used them
to fortify his position. Some one drew a pistol
and ordered him to surrender. He bared his breast
and challenged the fellow to shoot, and said they
might kill him where he was, or the Sheriff might
take and hang him according to law, but that he
would never be dragged out by a mob, and hung
like a dog.
This fierce determination to sell his life dearly,
and die in his tracks, had a mellowing and enlightening
influence upon the dense faculties of his assailants
. They began to moderate in their zeal for
justice, and to think they were carrying matters
too far. The favorable moment was seized by the
friends of order, and a proposition affording a loophole
of escape from the ignominy of defeat, was
made and accepted. After some parley, the jail
was cleared, the gallows taken down, and the mob
dispersed. The performance was over- the mountain
had labored, the mouse was born, the throes
of parturition ceased to be felt. Thus ended in
farce, what threatened and was intended for tragedy.
And this result was brought about chiefly by
skill and valor of Tom Brown, one of the prisoners the.
