LOCAL MATTERS.
A BLACK DESPERADO.- The continued ease of
William Watson, slave to Wm. Myers and hired to
to Messrs. Edmond& Davenport, charged with violently
assaulting his overseer, Captain J. Wills,
on Tuesday last, came up before the Mayor yesterday
. From the Captain's statement it appeared
Watson was employed on board of his boat and
had charge of his( Wills') room. He was in the
habit of waiting on the Captain at table. Som e
two or three weeks ago, one evening, just before
supper, the Captain placed some$ 30 in gold and
silver in a drawer in his room, and upon going to
the drawer again, immediately after supper, he
found it had been broken open and the money abstracted
. Watson was missing during supper
time, a very unusual thing, and the Captain there
fore suspected him of stealing the money. Mr. W.
intended to have had the negro examined in Lynch-
burg about a week since, having delayed examination
until that time, in order to find out, if possible,
the true thief; but Watson ran away at Lynch
burg and came down here to his master, Mr
Myers. On Tuesday Captain Wills determined to
flow the negro, and induce him, if possible, to con
fess the theft. He took him into a stable and told
the negro to strip, and was turning round to pick
up a switch when the negro jumped and seized&
heavy wooden mallet about two feet long and six
or seven inches in circumference, and made at the
Captain. The Captain was just recovering from
sickness, and was therefore very weak and unable
to cope with the black ruffian. A long and terrible
struggled ensued; several times the negro succeed.
ed in striking the Captain over the head and shoulders
with the mallet, and at last he got the Captain
down, who had become perfectly exhausted, when
Captain McClenahan, who was passing near the
stable, saw through a window the scuffle, seized an
adze and arrived just in time to save the Captain
from having his skull mashed to pieces by the negro
. The negro was then tied and soundly flogged.
The negro, while tied, asked to be unloosed that he
might kill Captain Wills. Captain W. stated in
court yesterday, that if the negro was let loose in
Richmond and came in his way, as he had threat-
ned to ad and,( Wills) he should certainly feel
justified in killing him,( Watson) The Mayor said
he could not suffer such a public threat to go unnoticed
, and would therefore require$ 300 security
of the Captain, and would order the negro 39 lashes
, to be administered as soon as able to bear them.
Mr. Myera, owner of the negro, stating that he in
tended to sell him to go South immediately, the
Mayor remitted the security from the Captain.-
From the Captain's statement, the struggle for life
on his part was a fearful one, and it was next to a
miracle that his life was saved. Had he have been
in good health he could have mastered the black
villain, who certainly deserves 39 every day be
here
stays.
