hour.
.) from the top of the Upper Fall to the foot of Con To dye yellow with quercitron,
, is 312 feet, and the distance is about two miles. The only necessary to scald some of it in a
through which the waters flow is often one hundred feet and use the clear dection by placing it
banks of stone almost perpendicular. The scenery
bringing it up to the boil, and using a
these falls is wild, picturesque and beautiful, and when
of the sulpho muriate of tin in the Equor. The
is high, is of much grandeur. The country adjoining
two or three dips in the Equor- each dp requiring
covered with forest trees, thus retaining for the ravine
appearance, and constitutes the greatest charm of minutes handling- then an airing. Cotton and
. are boiled in the bark liquor, but silk goods
they are merely handled in the scalding hot liquor
VARICK STREET.- You will excuse our giv-
makes a very beautiful color, but if buckwheat
your signature the street in which you reside. The fact
have received this week no less than fourteen no es answer as good a purpose our farmers can
A Constant Reader," and as we cannot answer all ing yellows and browns, in the same manner
signature without creating confusion we are com it will be more convenient for them to use
adopt some other appellation. If correspondents the sulpho- murtate of tin, as the mordant.
take take the trouble e append their fafitals or a known fact, that quereltron bark
was evported
name by which they could be distinctly a ldressed, they delphia for many years to England, and used
please us much. It is not unusual for us to receive
ing yellow, before the secret of its use was
of inquiries in the course of the week, with" An Old
,"" A Subscriber,"" A Constant Reader," etc.,
appended, which often give us more trouble than the in-
involved, and which might in future be avoided by GEN. WASHINGTON ON SLAVERY
our suggestion ..... The" exact time" of the Ara-
her shortest western voyage, was made in the month of Washington wrote to Lafayette:-" The scheme
1853. The Arabia left Liverpool at 2 P. M. on the 13th Marquis, which you propose as a precedent to
month, and arrived in New York at 7:55 A. M. of the emancipation of the black people of this country
time was 9 days 17 hours and 55 minutes Her quick- in which they are held, a
,
. of bondage is striking
trip was made in the month of June, 1853. She left
at 12,30 P. M., June 15, and arrived at Liverpool on the benevolence of your heart. I shall be happy
of the same month, at 12 A. M.- exact time 9 days, in so laudable a work." In 1785, Washington
and 7 minutes. seme distinguished gentleman:" The benevolence
ANXIOUS MOTHER heart, my dear Marquis, is so conspicuous on
.- Children from seven to
that I never wonder at any fresh proofs of it
ought not to eat grean stuifs, meat, fish, stale eggs, nor
- fed milk, in the saminer months, especially. Farina, purchase of an estate in the colony of Cayenne
, home- made bread, corn bread, ripe fruit, samp, of emancipating the slaves on it, is a generous
, of your humanity. Would to
starch in God a spirit
the form of pudding, rice piain, or made into a like
no ico rich, arrow- root, ele ,, e.c., make excellent food
self generally into the minds of the people of
at any season, We beg of you" Anxious Mother"
have the welfare of your chlidren at heart, not to pour But I despair of seeing it.
collee down their tender throats, on any occasion or un- To set the slaves afloat at once would, I really
pretext. Pure water is the very best fluid that can be productive of much mischief and inconvenience
to
first they fond grees it might, and assuredly ought to be effected
occasionalle
. If are of
sweels
,
porge th malves with the contents of
too, by legislative authority." It makes a
- lowi. Aboh r thought we would advisa" Anxious Mo-
sive commentary on this correspondence between
the trombone ask. erory, Tollow our directions and Lafayette, on the subject of American
wili, in part, lollow our directions
at le night ber, and ehlidr never n remain dress them out of in bed the morning la er than without nine the burg words:" I which know not the what latter disposition wrote from has the been
thema a thorouels sonsing to a tab of tepid water. Water pis ntation at Cayenne, but I hope that Madame
necessary to the purity
of the ealele as good food is to will take care that the negroes cho culticate
of the s'omach.
their liberty." In 1786, Washington wrote
C.-B. can recover from A. the thirty Mercer;" I never mean, unless some
rent ...... The refusal of A. to comply with the stipula stances compel me to it, to possess another
but swear the null Present of oust lease the all him it United its- in your in other from. our Should States vote farther stipulations present, at no legal the enjoyment hater understanding. next proceedings 15, where can election of the not brought property, of be only and the instituted recover ap if ease- ..., chat- is a ly clase which A, WHALE it being slavery among in AMONG this my country first THE wishes moy WHALEMEN be to abolished see some
you you could probably bring diefent linback
evidence time since, a whale
to was seen and captured
your avermen. Heference to the family record, to the at Nantucket, by the captain and crew of the
by whom you were christened, or the evidence of the lam P. Dolliver. The schooner was bound
who attended your mother at parturition, or the state-
persons in the neighborhood in which your parents re- cruise; but, when off the bar, it was discovered
would be acceptable to the court. It would rest with the forgotten their chart. A boat was sent on
prove that you were not born in the place you allege. the schooner lay to. awaiting the return of
JOACHIM HALBERT.- While we advocate was descried. Another boat was instantly
chase given. They soon came up with the
diet in sultry weather, we don't exactly approve of
cabbage. Persons lance was shot Into it, which killed it at once
who pertatu themselves to be
" in that way, are apt to get into a" pickle" from which of the boat the rebooner was worked alongside
nostrums in Materia Medien esnnot release them. Pickled taken in tow. The steamer Massachusetts was
occasionally, will not injure any one; but constant came and took the schooner and whale in tow
on this class of food is very hurtfel even to the roost
. them both into the harbor, where the whale
