DAILY VIRGINIAN.
Origon of the Lynch Law.
From the old diary of the distinguished An-
drew Ellitt, his grandson, J. C. G. Kennedy,
Esq., of this city, has copied the subjoined extracts
, giving an account of Capt. Lynch, of
Virginia, who appeers to have been the man whe
introduced and gave a name to that" wild justice
" which is known in our country as" Lynch
law."
" Capt. Lynch, just mentioned, was the author
of the lynch laws, so well known and so frequently
carried into effect some years ago in the United
States, in violation of every principle of jus.
tice and jurisprudence. Mr. Lynch resided in
Pittsylvania, in the State of Virginia, when he
commenced legistor and carried his system into
effect. The details I had from himself, and are
nearly as follows:
" The Lynch men associated for the purpose
of punishing crimes in a summary way, without
the aid of the tedious and technical form of our
courts of justice. Upon complaint being made
to any member of ths association of a crime be.
ing committed within the vicinity of their jurisprudence
, the person complaid of was immediately
pursued and taken if possible. If apprehended
, he was carried before some members of the
association and examined; if his answers were
not satisfactory, he was whipped until they were
80. Those extorted answers generally involved
others in the supposed crime, who in their turn
were punished in like manner. These punishments
were sometimes severe, and not unfrequent-
ly inflicted upon the innocent through spite, or
in consequence of answers extorted under the
smarting of the whip to interrogatories put by
the members of the association. Mr. Lynch informed
me that he had never in any case given&
vote for the punishment of death; some, however
, he acknowledged, had been actually hanged,
though not in the common way; a horse, in part,
became the executioner. The manner was this,
the person who it was supposed ought to suffer
death, was placed on a horse, with his hands
tied behind him and a rope about his neck, which
was festened to the limb of a tree over his head.
In this situation the person was left, and when
the horse, in pursuit of food, or any other cause,
moved from his position, the unfortunate person
was left suspnded by the neck. This was called
aiding the civil authority. It seems almost in-
creditable that such proceedings should be had in
a civilized country, governed by unknown laws;
it may nevertheless be relied on. I should not
have asserted it as a fact, had it not been related
to me by Mr. Lynch himself, and neighbor, Mr.
Lay, one of the original association, together
with several other Lynch men, they are called.-
This self created tribunal was first organized in
the State of Virginia, about the year 1776, from
whence it extended Southward, as before observed
.
Mr. Lynch has the appearance of an ancient
athlet, and had he lived in the times of the olym-
pic games, would probably have figured" on the
bloody arena." He possesses a strong but uncultivated
mind, is hospitable and generous to an
extreme; to which may be added a great stickler
for equality and the rights of man as established
by law! So contradictory are the ideas and conduct
of the only creatures supposed to be endowed
with reason and in the universe."
National Intelligencer judgment.
