the root of all their troubles vexations and
,, took
loses, by ridding themselves of incendiary ted
publications, and driving from their midst, polls
a set of worthless beings, who only delight were
in aiding and abetting the running off of ri,
their neighbor's slaves, and making them- on
black
selves otherwise odious to an honest and
respectable community. We, as a gener- the
al thing, disapprove of lynch law, and are his
the last to justify people in taking the law slave
in their own hands, when the Statutes pro- port
vide ample punishment for offences com- nine
initted. But there are certain cases in ten
which a community are justifiable in resorting
to any means to protect themselves
large
and punish offenders- they are in cases
where the law makes no provisions for such
punishment. We look upon the destruction as
of the Abolition printing office in Park-
ville, Mo., as necessary for the security of
the lives of the citizens in that neighbor- and
ity
hood, the protection of their property, and
the well- being of the Slave- holding population
. We have often wondered that Platte
county should take such a deep interest in over
the politics of this Territory, and render ion has
us such valuable assistance in driving ne- days
gro- thieves from our midst, while she per- pose
initted, on her own soil, the torch of the ow
incendiary to be lighted, the knife of the
the
assassin to be raised, and her citizens daily ings
victimised, by the same hand that threat:
ened to destroy us! But we knew them
to be a forbearing people; we knew that
the
they would endeavor by moral suasion to
remedy the evil, but at that point, where
forbearance ceases to be a virtue, we also
knew decisive measures would be adopted.
The destruction of the press of Messrs. filled
Park& Patterson in Parkville, should be a any
warning to papers of like stamp, in other
portions of the State, and here in Kansas
Territory. They should at least learn by
this simple lesson, that the people of the
determined at all hazzards or
South,
are,
at whatever cost, to purge themselves of are
all resident Abolitionists, and further, to 73
perform the same thing for us, here in Kan-
sas Territory. Now that the work has
been commenced, let the reform be carried
All eyes are now turned to Jef-
further
furson. city, and St. Louis. After which,
