Scenery in the Australian Gold Fields.
The following letter Appeared in the
Geelong Advertiser, and is stated to be
furnished by a very respectable correspondent
:
" A month's sojourn on Fryar's creek
has given me a deep insight into the
morale of the diggings, and opened up
scenes that I could not have anticipated
during the rosy days when the
wonders of Ballarat first flushed our
imaginations with the prospect of vast
fields of illimitable wealth. At Balla-
rat, there was peace, unity and security
, but at Fryar's creek these desirable
qualities are reversed, and quarrels,
disssensions, bloodshed and danger, of
the direst description, reign supreme.-
The Government is palsied, while the
ill- doer runs on in a career of unchecked
crime and rapine, or at the most is
checked by a occasional pistol shot, or
similar act of summary justice, responded
to by a groan, and the effect manifested
the next morning by blood stains,
when a few observations are, bandied
about from tent to tent, that a man was
shot, and no more is heard of the matter.
A surgeon is called in to attend a wounded
man; no questions are asked, the
fee is paid, and if the man dies, he is
disposed of. I speak from experience,
and fearlessly say that, in retiring to
rest, the same precautions are necessary
and are had recourse to, as though
one were in the heart of an enemy's
country, and fearing a midnight onslaught
- guns and pistols are loaded-
sentinels appointed for the nightly watch,
and intruders, at their peril, are warned
to stand off; and if wild justice be occasionally
executed, the evil cannot be
imputed to those who stand in defence
of selves and their hard earned treasures,
but to the necessity of the time and the
,
laxity of the ruling power. If the ordinary
routine of justice be unequal to
the emergency, resort will be had to
that which is commensurate to the occasion
- that resort is a terrible one-
but it is now coolly asked by many,
whether it would not be better to establish
a Lynch law than to allow thieves
a plenary immunity. It is a question
now, whether Lynch law would not be
better than no law at all? So far is the
necessity of Lynch law felt, that I am.
satified if it were propounded by any
influential man on the diggings it would
be hailed with acclamation. The inhabitants
of towns cannot conceive the
feeling of danger prevalent here; it is
not a fear, but consciousness of uncertainty
, and an indignation at the audacity
with which thefts are planned and
executed. Men have been stopped and
rifled on the highroad at mid- day; and
I, standing with three other men, saw a
man seized, his arms pinioned, and his
pockets emptied, without daring to assist
him; so numerous were the associates
of the thieves robbing him. Now,
I ask you, to imagine such a scene perpetrated
before you, what would your
feelings be? When such union for il!
exists, surely it is time that union for
should take place to counterba-
good lance it."
