LATER FROM TEXAS.
By the arrival yesterday afternoon of the steamship
Mexico we have received our files of Galveston papers
to the 30th ult.
We learn that the crops throughout the most part of
Texas are remarkably flourishing. The growth of the
cotton crop, during the past few weeke, has been really
astonishing.
The Galveston News criticises Col. Howard's speech
at San Antonio very severely.
We learn from the San Antonio Ledger that the
Mexican Boundary Commission were still at El Paso
and vicinity. The starting point of the survey had been
fixed upon the Rio Grande, about twenty- five miles below
Dona Ana.
Lynch law was prevailing at El Paso to a fearful extent
., Within two weeks filteen persons, Americans
and Mexicans, had suffered by hanging and shooting at
the hands of the self- constituted jurors. For the most
trivial offence, and without time for an explanation, the
unfortunate being would be shot down or hung up to
the limb of a tree, at the beck or nod of any one of the
Committee of Safety, without even the förmalities of a
trial.
We are inclined to think that there must have been
some justification for these summary proceedings, if
they really occurred.
The San Antonio papers say that there has been so-
rious difficulty between the Kikapoos and the Mexican
troops of the Mexican colonies on the Rio Grande.
The troops were obliged to call out the citzens to aid
them.
Major Borland was at Fort Inge on the 21st inst., on
his way to Eagle Pass.
The large trains are progressing prosperously. The
grass is good.
We learn from the Ledger that some Indians, during
the last winter while engaged in a bear hunt, set the
world on fire. They ran a bear into a cave, and attempted
to smoke him out. They soon observed the
smoke rising from fissures in the mountain, for the distance
of half a mile. This was in the mountains above
Fredericksburg Superstition added terrors to the
scene, and the Indians came to the settlements to pro
cure assistance to extinguish the flames They teared
that the prince of the infernal regions was about to
come forth, robed in liquid fire, to consume their hunting
grounds. They say the smoke has an unearthly
smell. It is supposed that the fire was communicated
to a bed of coal, and it may yet give us a Texas volcano
. It is said that Americans have confirmed the In-
dian account of the fire.
Wild Cat, instead of being dead, as reported, is
Eagle Pass.-N. O. Pic. at
