BALTIMORE CORRESPONDENCE.
From our Special Reporter.
BALTIMORE, April, 24, 1861.
EDITORS REPUBLICAN: Your correspondent
arrived in this city on Monday morning last,
after a pleasant and agreeable ride of two hours
and a half over the Washington branch of the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad. Upon passing
through the principal streets, citizen soldiers
were to be seen in squads at almost every
corner, and now and then five, ten, and fifteen
recruits were observed moving in the direction
of the Susquehanna Railroad Depot, where, it
is stated, they are to be put through a regular
course of Scott's Infantry tactics, preparatory
to their reception into regular organized companies
, for the purpose of preventing the pas
sage of any more troops which may be sent
from Pennsylvania or elsewhere to defend your
city.
It is very evident that anarchy reigns
supreme throughout the city, and that the
mayor, who pretends to govern it, is no more
nor less than a mere cat's paw in
brutal, drunken mob, who would, in order to
gratify their rabid appetites, and also for a
Pachange," see the city a mass of smouldering
ruins. Had Mayor Brown crushed this hydra
headed monster of mobocracy in the begin.
ning, he would not now have had to succumb
to it; instead of being a follower, as he now
is, he could have been an oracle, and thus saved
the city from the gloom, sorrow, and terror,
which is now prevalent.
No man dare express himself in favor of the
stars and stripes, and the glorious memories
which enoircle it, without encountering per.
vauntingly to the breeze, amid the shouts of
Unithose who have nothing to lose, but everything
to gain, in the civil war which is now almost
upon us.
It is observable, that many respectable Bal.
timorians of wealth- among them Ross Wi
have coalesced with and
nans- are now up
,
holding, this mob spirit, with a view, no doubt,
of controlling it in the future; but, if history
be any criterion, they will share the fate of
those who sought control the" Reign of Ter-
to
ror," in France, in 1790, and find out, sooner
or later, that Dumourier, an eminent French
writer, was correct when he said, that" it was
the weakness of honest men which in every
,
There is no doubt Hicks has
been forced to call the Legislature together
Indeed, I have learned from highly respectable
authority that he would have been assassinated,
while in the city on Friday last, had he not consented
to do so. It was personal violence, and
the fear that he would be ousted from his seat
as Governor a la Sam Houston that he has
Legislature.
,
convene the
,
thought proper to
And then, again, Mr. Coleman Yellott, the only
member of the General Assembly from this
city, issued quasi his proclamation, convening
the Legislature in this city to- morrow, the 25th
that" the de-
instant giving as a reason crisis
,
mands that our people should have the united
counsels of the representatives of the counties."
To prevent the assembling of this irresponsible
bod in a city already run mad with violence
and brutality he yielded to those around him
the Legislature will, therefore, meet at
;
and
,
Annapolis on Friday next, the 26th inst. As
it is well known that a majority of that body
are secessionists per se, there is no doubt but
that they will immediately call a State Conven.
tion, giving a week or ten days to elect dele-
gates to it. What complexion the Convention
will consist of remains to be seen; but it is to be
hoped that the rural districts will save the State
from this unnatural and unholy war against the
peace and welfare of the whole country.
On Monday last I had occasion to make a
trip to Cockeysville about fourteen miles dis-
,
tant, where I found the Pennsylvania troops,
to the number of 3,700, encamped in the
woods, without tents or bedding. Since Fri-
day last, they have subsisted upon what they
could purchase from the surrounding country:
Major Belger, U. S. A., who arrived there on
Sunday, A. M., informed me that the troops
would
leave there that special
evening in a
train for Harrisburg.
Upon arriving at Barnum's Hotel in the
evening, and quietly reading the papers of the
day, your correspondent, from his good looks,
no doubt, attracted the attention of a small
squad of youths,( ne soldiers,) with windows
in their pants, and red stripes running perpendicularly
. From their conversation, it soon
became apparent that they were holding a consultation
as to whether I was a d- d Yankee,
a Western mau, or a Southerner. Without
awaiting the result of this consultation, and
not wishing to be detained for twenty- four or
thirty- six hours at the marshal's office, I
make this statement that your citizens may
be put upon their guard as to what they may
to
I am happy to be able to state that Captain
Dyke, commanding Company" C" of the
Massachusetts volunteers, now quartered in
your city, and who was so seriously injured in
the disgraceful attack made on that regiment
while passing through here, is gradually recovering
, and hopes to be able to move about
within a day or two. This worthy and gallant
officer had the sum of$ 1,000 stolen from him
when attacked. The money being a contribution
from the citizens of Boston for the benefit
of the company which he commanded, causes
him to feel its loss very sensibly. Others of
the regiment lost by
their kuapsacks, which contained the money,
forcibly taken from them.
To- morrow I intend going to Annapolis, for
the purpose of seeing my old friend, Colonel
Lefferts, the chief of the gallant New York
regiment, from which place you may
expect to hear me again.
