" Oldschool" closes his remarkable
article with this sentence:" There is
more hope for those orthodox lynchers
than for the cold- blooded skeptics who
try by frigid sophism to chill the instinctive
faith of the human heart in God,
and in future punishment." We have
no love for skepticism as such, holding
the largest and broadest Christian
faith, but quite as little love have we
for the idea implied in this sentence,
that the faith of those orthodox lynchers
, and of other cruel, hard- hearted,
and blood- thirsty men, will better commend
them to the favor of God, than
the big hearts and benevolent purposes
known to be possessed by some
est doubters. hon
Was not that a beautiful and delightful
way of showing faith in God,
hanging that Chinese lad, and sending
him to an endless hell! Please notice
that Hong Di had already been judicially
tried for his crime; had by the
verdict of the jury been sentenced to
imprisonment for life and as" Califor
nia governors" are not in the habit of
pardoning Chinamen, there would be
no opportunity for his doing any more
mischief in the world, and yet this emn-
inent Presbyterian minister thinks the
men who engaged in the lynching of
Hong Di," showed that they had faith
in God," by taking their victim" away
from the control of the judicial system
of California," which, by the way, has
not generally been suspected of being
excessively generous to Chinamen, and
hanging him, and sending him with
malicious purpose, into all the horrors
of a hopeless hell! We have thought
and said a good m my severe things
about Orthodoxy, but we must con
fess that" the beauties of orthodoxy"
illustrated in the light of a lawless,
murderous mob, hanging a Chinese boy
of seventeen, in California, had never
occurred to us. It took an" Oldschool"
Presbyterian minister to put it in that
light. The closing words of the last
sentence quoted, represent the mob as
" sending his spirit to God, to deal with
him as he deserved." Lik Sam Wel
ler," my wision's limited;" I do not
profess to know just where Hong Di is,
what he is doing, or just what his present
condition is. We are satisfied, however
, to know that he is in the hands of the
/
" All
souls"
Father who are mine
, says,,
and who is infinite in justice, mercy
and love, and who will deal with this
poor murdered Chinese boy, just as
infinite justice, mercy, and love demand
. Toward the close of this strange
article," Oldschool" represents that
mob as saying in their own justification
," There is a God above us, and he
has a place of torment for the guilty,
and when the jury failed to render a
satisfactory verdict, we took an appeal
to him who proclaimed amid the thun-
ders of Sinai,' Thou shalt no murder
."" do
