and
Admiral Jorge Montt's brother- in- law, is condition became so grave that Mrs. packages
there
en route to Washington with important Parnell and the attending physician de all sorts
law. documents. It is alleged that grounds cided it advisable her
to at once summon
un
exist for criminal charges against several additional medical advice. Two other looked
political refugees now stopping at the physicians were at once called in, but acquaintance
American legation. notwithstanding their efforts Mr. Iar had sent
nell continued to grow steadily worse, is as
Another Stage Held Up.
and it soon became obvious that the says
Crime
Information has been received by Wells, Irish leader was gradually sinking and gold
.
Fargo& Co. that the stage between Link that death was but a cuestion of few dantiest
Mrs.
ville and Lakeview, Oregon, was held up days, perhaps hours. Since then it ap and
1889,
and robbed by two men near Lakeview. toys that
by The amount of the booty secured by the pears to have been simply a matter of
awaiting the arrival of the inevitable. some
assumed
robbers is not known, but it is said they did
The announcement of Mr. l'arnell's trousseau
to
not molest the mails.
death caused a tremendous sensation had,
to
here, says a London cab egram, the ments
any Cars and Tramps Went Overboard.
news coming while the pub ic mind is keep
murder At Memphis,
Tenn., two freight cars were still agitated by the deaths of William half a
crime run off the transfer steamer
Charles Ma Henry Smith and other distinguished vants
die rian and drowned four men. The train was
men. At first it was feared that it was ages
parents backed with more than ordinary force into
another suicide, and this was fully bo more
igno the boat, causing the hind cars to break
lieved in by many in London, by whom offerings
crime over the bumpers and pitch headlong into there was a frequent
grouping together Eas',
the water.
of the suicides of Balmaceda, Boulanger Boston
friends
Court- Martialed for Hazing.
land's
Cadets Arthur C. Kavanas h, of Nebras
Coal
offerings
ka, and Claude W. Griffith, of Maryland,
Mrs.
the charge of azing Cadet of
in baby
Ohio, by tying him between two mattresses,
Pa., Cleveland
are being tried by court- martial at the
the the first
Annapolis Naval Academy.
, to his
one of Building
Killed at a Funeral.
history pearance
Edwin Drestell, of Altoona, Iowa, was
workers baby
killed while riding in a funeral procession
care.
is by a team running away and overturning
heaving mater'a
his carriage, together with several others.
in some
Four other persons were fatally injured,
first completed
and many were more or less hurt.
the took a
so walked
Just Like a Skunk Farm.
. The arrest of two men at Niagara for eightn
town
smuggling in Chinamen has disclosed a
Everybody
, conspiracy with a United States marshal to
good
bring Celestials across the line and have
Ford a between
them captured, tried, etc., for the sake of
and was
the fees.
Blue folks in
Her No Trouble in Guatemala:
While
water. A special cable dispatch from Guatemala much
stream, City says it is not true that any serious re Cleveland
Hermann volt occurred there on Sept. 15 last. There ladies
CHARLES STEWART PARNELL ..
wagon, was some slight excitement, but nothing who is
and Parnell. This impression was kept
as could
were important happened. Nobody was hurt.
up for some time until details came
swam. paid
Another Alliance Candidate Declines. showing that the death was from nat and
suc
In an, interview, E. Barksdale, of Jack ural causes. the result of a severe cold.
the progress
son, Miss., denies that he aspires to the Expressions of surprise wer: at first ing.
than of sorrow, al
Presidency of the National Alliance. He more numerous
beautifully
says further that he would not accept the though now that the facts are learned a Daniel
