students fired their college yells at the
president. The insurance men's banner
was inscribed," We don't insure free
whisky. The metal supply dealers
chorused," Don't, don't, don't be afraid;
tariff reform is not free trade." The
wool men had a load of sheep in a wagon
and placarded," Free wool will start
mills and employ idle labor." Buffalo
Bill rode by in a carriage and Judge Martin
walked with the Lawyer's club.
The parade occupied one hour and
fifty- five minutes in passing the stand. A
careful estimate put the total number in
line at 17,000 men. After passing
through Twenty- ninth street, where the
Democratic national headquarters are
located the various bodies dispersed.
President Cleveland, wife and party
started for Washington at 4 p. m.
FLASHES.
NEW YORK, Oct. 27.- The Herald's
Washington special says: Minister Phelps
has been instructed by the president
through Bayard, to intimate to Salisbury,
without delay, that under all the circum-
stances the president is of the opinion
that the good understanding of both countries
would be promoted by a change of
head of the British legation at Wash-
ington.
Poughkeepsie.- John Gay Vassar died
this morning. He was the last of the
Vassar brothers.
New York.- The weekly bank statement
shows that the banks hold$ 15,500,-
000 in excess of legal requirements.
Colorado Springs.- The Rock Island
road was completed to this point yester
day.
Ottawa, Ont. The militia department
has received intelligence from Winnipeg
to the effect that the Canadian Pacific has
notified the magistrate of their intention
to ask for the services of troops at the
portage at La Prairie should they be required
.
St. Louis.- J. A. Swan, ex treasurer
of Knoxville, Tenn., who is charged with
being short in his accounts, was seen in
this city to day and denied the charges in
toto.
SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 27.- At the Bay
District track to day, the Palo Alto colt,
Sunol, lowered the 2 year old record of
2:20, made by her last week, making
the mile to day in 2:18.
Washington. Act'g- Secretary Thomp-
son informed the collector of customs at
San Francisco to- day that" Chinese sail-
ors arriving in United States vessels who
shipped in United States ports for
a round voyage and had been continously
under the United States flag are not covered
by the Chinese exclusion act."
New York.- The H. Clauson& Son
brewing company sold to George Sher-
man. John R. Kingsford and Isaac
termeyer, representatives of an English
syndicate, all their property in eastern
boulevard and Forty- seventh street for
$ 4,500,000.
Paris- Twenty persons were severely
injured during a row at a Boulangist
meeting in Salle Wagram last night.
Boulangist newspapers charge the police
with being in and about the disturbance.
London The Sackville letter incident
has caused considerable stir in diplomatic
circles. Phelps, United States minister,
has gone to Hatfield house, Lord Salis-
bury's country residence in Hartfordshire,
to see Lord Salisbury. He called first at
the foreign office and finding the prime
minister gone immediately followed him
to his country home.
Washington- The American steamer
Haytian Republic, while attempting to
force the blockade of the insurgent port
of St. Marie, Hayti, with rebel troops,
arms and amunition on board, has been
captured. The captain and crew are pris-
oners of war at Port au- Prince.
Washington.- Lieutenant Commander
Emery, commanding the United States
steamer Thetis, reports to the navy department
under date of Gulf of Alaska,
Sept. 29, that the wreck of a schooner
supposed to be the Lookout of San Fran-
cisco has been found on Athka Island,
one of the Alutian group, and that no
information in regard to her crew could
be learned from the natives.
Charleston, Va.- A train on the Chesa-
peak& Ohio railroad was thrown from
the track just above this city this morning
caused by a misplaced switch. The engine
, tender, baggage car, two coaches
and the sleeper were thrown over an em-
bank.nent. Fireman John Elkins of
Sinton and Conductor W. A. Netherland
of the Chesapeak& Ohio were burned to
death.
New York.- The socialists of this city
to- night celebrated with fiery speeches
and resolutions the twenty- fifth anniversary
of the starting of the socialistic movement
in Germany.
Great Barrington, Mass.- The Berk-
shire Woolen company of Great Barring
ton suspended this afternoon and work
was shut down. The resources and liabilities
are yet unknown. In 1876 the
company failed for$ 400,000.
Nashville.- Henry Jones, a negro murderer
, was lynched by a mob at Woodland
Mills last night.
New York. The total registration in
this city for the four days was 286,547.
Pena, Tex.- The Pena& Rio Grande
stage was robbed twenty miles from here
this morning by highwaymen armed with
rifles, who secured a few hundred dollars
in money and valuables from the passen-
gers.
Athens.- The king opened parliament
to- day and announced the betrothal of the
Duke of Sparta to Princess Sophia of
Prussia.
The largest stock of fine brandies, old
whiskies, choice liqueurs and superfine
cigars at George Masten's well known
house, corner Sixteenth and
streets. Ferguson
