SHOT DEAD BY HIS PARTNER,
Fatal Quarrel of Two Kansas City
Boarding House Keepers.
IS TASCOTT CAUGHT AT LAST?
A Man Answering His Description
Shot While Resisting Arrest in
Kentucky- Double Tragedy
in Missouri.
Killed By His Partner.
KANSAS CITY, Nov. 29.- About 8 o'clock
last evening a shot was heard at 111 East
Tenth street, and a few seconds afterwards
two men came running out to the double
stairway leading to the second story. One
rushed down the back stairway and was
soon lost in the darkness; the other staggered
a moment, and with a groan stumbled
forward and fell to the bottom of the front
stairs a corpse. Amos Ringle had shot his
partner, Eugene Lewis, and fled from the
scene of the murder.
A few moments before 9 o'clock a man
with bloody features and wild rolling eyes,
holding up the left hand, which showed an
gly gash between the thumb and first
ger, came rushing into police headquarters
and startled those present by exclaiming
:" I am the man who killed Lewis."
Captain Branhan immediately came forward
, and calling Police Surgeon Iuen,
hurried the man into the jail, where his
wounds were dressed by the surgeon, after
which he was locked up.
There is little doubt but what the killing
was in self defense. Ringle and Lewis were
partners in a second hand store and lodging
house, but were unable to agree in their
business relations, and indulged in many
quarrels during the two weeks they had been
associated together. Only$ 40 had been invested
in the business by Ringle, and he was
anxious to withdraw this money and dissolve
the partnership. He had made known his
desires to Mr. Lewis on several different occasions
, but the proposition always terminated
in a quarrel, preventing an amicable adjustment
of their business relations. Two
days ago he left their place of business and
went to a boarding house at 1000 McGee
street to take his meals. Sunday night he
came down to the house and slept with
Lewis, as had been his enstom for the past
two weeks. Last night he concluded to go
down and get his things, and sever his
connection with the establishment. Accompanied
by C. W. Smith and Thomas Guard,
he went down to the house at 111 East Tenth
street, and going to the room occupied by
the two, began to pack his things. While
thus occupied Lewis came into the room,
and a short dispute was had regarding
Ringle's departure. Shis was followed by a
scuffle, in which Ringle was pushed over the
stove by Lewis, who then attacked him with
a large butcher knife. After closing in with
each other once or twice, Ringle broke loose,
and jumped across the small apartment to
the bed, grabbed a revolver that was lying
under one of the pillows, and turning, fired
at Lewis. The ball took effect in the right
side, several inches below the arm, penetrating
the vital parts.
How Lewis managed to reach the stairway
Is not known, but he was found at the bottom
with the knife, covered with blood at his
side.
A Virginia Jail Delivery.
LYNCHBURG, Va., Nov. 20.- A special from
Wytheville, Va., says: A band of armed
men, wearing masks, broke open the jail here
at 2 o'clock this morning and rescued Wayne
Sutton, under sentence of death, which was
to have been executed to- morrow, for the
murder of Peter Harvell. The jailor's statement
is that a party of men came there and
demanded admittance, which he refused.
They thereupon broke the door open with a
sledge hammer, and the front hall was immediately
filled with masked men, armed
with double barreled guns and pistols. They
covered him with a dozen guns and demanded
the keys to the cells, which he refused,
whereupon they searched his private apartments
and found them in his wife's sewing
machine. After securing Sutton they locked
up some of the guards in his cell and left for
the west end of the county. The party is
variously estimated by the parties who saw
it at from 50 to 1,000. The sledge hammer
that was used was found in the jail this
morning.
Peter Harvell was murdered in March,
1837, and the evidence, all of which was circumstantial
, pointed to Wayne Sutton and
his father- in- law, Morgan Pendleton, as the
perpetrators of the deed. Harvell's house
had been previously destroyed by an incendiary
, and himself badly wounded by a would-
be- assassin, and he was still suffering from
the wound when murdered. Pendleton and
Sutton were seen in the neighborhood of the
house previous to the murder, and the general
impression in the neighborhood was
that they had been hired to kill him. Pen-
dleton is said to be from Kentucky, and a
letter purporting to have been written by
him, in which he declared that he, and not
Sutton, was the murderer, was recently submitted
to Governor Lee. Sutton was arrested
in Indiana last June and brought back
to Wytheville, where his trial took place,
He was convicted, and all appeals had failed.
Outrage, Murder and Suicide.
ST. LOUIS, Nov. 29.- The details of a horrible
outrage, muraer and suicide comes from
Nevada, Mo., to- day. It was committed
about eight miles south of Nevada, the victim
being Miss Ella Wray, aged twenty- one
years, daughter of a widow, and belonging
to one of the best families in that section.
Yesterday Miss Wray, accompanied by
George Corb, who taught the district school
and boarded with Mrs. Wray, went to the
city. Corb returned last night alone, and informed
a brother of Miss Wray that the girl
had been dragged from the buggy and murdered
by two unknown men. The body was
found in a clump of bushes near the roadside.
The young woman's throat had been cut
from ear to ear. Corb was placed under
guard, and during the night committed suicide
by taking poison, thus escaping lynching
. The coroner's inquest developed the
fact that the girl had been outraged and then
murdered.
Late this afternoon two coroner's juries
returned their verdicts. It was decided that
the girl had been strangled by Corb, and
that he had committed suicide by taking
poison. Opinion is very much divided as to
the girl's death and the motive of the murder,
if it was murder. Those who closely examined
the place where the body was found say
there indications of
were many a
severe struggle. It was on a hillside,
where a tree had fallen. There
were a number of buckeye bushes growing
there, and leaves had collected among them.
Twigs had been broken from the tree top,
the bushes were broken and bent, and the
leaves and dirt bore evidence of a scuffle.
Mrs. Wray, mother of the dead girl, says
that Corb had been visiting her daughter
since last August, but they were not engaged.
She says that the girl was engaged to another
school teacher, named Homer, who
lives in the neighborhood, and had been so
engaged for two years. Corb was a school
teacher, but has not taught for more than a
year. It is admitted that no outrage was
committed on the girl. Her throat was not
cut, but there were bloody finger prints, as
though she had been strangled.
KANSAS CITY, Nov. 29.- A special from Ne-
vada, Mo., says that the return of the deputy
sheriff who was sent to the scene of the
double tragedy throws a new light
on the affair, and shows that, instead
of murder and suicide, it was a
double suicide. Corb, who was twenty- four
years old, was in love with the girl, who was
but nineteen, and Saturday the couple drove
from the girl's home eight miles to Nevada.
started home in a buggy, and Corb 6
They
reached the home the girl long after the
inmates had retired. of He went to bed in the
