DAKOTA.
The Burlington, Cedar Rapids& Northern
railroad has contracted for a new$ 40,000
bridge at Sioux Falls.
An attempt is soon to be made to organ-
ize an oratorical association of the high
schools of South Dakota
The university at Vermilion now has 209
students
The office of the Nelson County Nees, at
Lakota, was burned the other morning, together
with the presses and outfit Loss,
$ 8,000; insurance,$ 1,200.
Mitchell has been selected as the place
for holding the next meeting of the Territorial
Horticultural Society, which takes
place in December, 1888.
The grain warehouse at Montpelier of the
North Dakota Elevator Company, containing
ten thousand bushels of wheat, was
burned a few nights ago.
Three brothers of Gladstone loaned$ 600
a few days ago on a$ 1,000 bond at Chi-
cago. They still have the bond and with it
a world of experience.
The United States Collector of Revenues
from Omaha has brought suit against
liquor dealers at Aberdeen to obtain$ 500
in tines for liquors shipped C. O. D. to towns
near there, the law being that liquors shipped
can not be paid for in outside towns.
Under the new law county superintendents
are obliged to turn in to the county
commissioners with their bills for per diem
and mileage certificates from the teachers
and schools visited.
C. A. Rensonhauser's residence near
Clarmeont was robbed a few days ago,
while part of the family was away, of$ 1,-
180 in gold
At Watertown the other day, J. Mitchell,
seventy years old, convicted of assaulting
his twelve- year- old step- daughter, was
sentenced to ten years in the Sioux Falls
penitentiary at hard labor.
Henry Reynolds and Thomas Head had a
fight at Hecla Station the other night,
which Reynolds was fatally shot and Head
had his head smashed in. Both would die
A large citizens' meeting was held at
Groton the other night for the purpose of
organizing a stock company to build building
and increase the capacity of a flax mill
to be moved there from Delaware, O. It
was proposed to manufacture linseed oil,
rope and binding twine.
The Prohibitionists have called a conference
in Huron January 17 to organize a
Prohibition party in Dakota
It was recently reported that John Jen-
nings, a former flour merchant of Pittsburgh,
Pa, had been lynched by Black His miners.
It was stated J nnings klied a miner
whose claim he that had" jumped."
