Lynch- law has the world for its
jurisdiction, and it has been resorted
to in about every State and Territory
in the Union. Our own State has not
been exempt from its operations.
Double and triple hangings by mob
force have taken place in Seattle,
Steilacoom, Ellensburg and other
places, in broad daylight and despite
the desperate resistance of officers of
the law armed to keep the peace.
Wide- spread as this frenzied administration
undoubtedly is in the
United States, it is quite safe to say
that nine- tenths of the lynchings in
this country take place in the South;
nine- tenths of their victims are
negroes, and more horrible than all,
nine- tenths of the crimes for which
these men suffer are assaults upon
white women and young girls. The
fact is a significant one that such
crimes and lynchings as now prevail
among the negroes of the Gulf States
were almost wholly unknown in antebellum
days, while slavery was one of
the political institutions of the land.
While in bondage, every negro old
enough to do evil of any kind was
under the strict surveillance of taskmasters
; and he had neither the inclination
nor opportunity to commit
such appalling crimes against defence-
less white women as are now so
mon all along our Southern border com-.
Statistics show that a large majority
of the negro population of the
south constitutes but a horde of idlers;
vicious, degraded and shameless to
the last extreme. After such lynchings
as take place in the northern
States, especially where white men are
hanged, there generally follows a
show of an attempt to punish the
perpetrators by searching them out
and bringing them before the courts.
But all such attempts are miserable
failures, as they ever will be, even
in the best regulated communities.
The highest magistrate in the land
solemnly dispenses statutory law in
gold spectacles, while some aggravated
murder trial is dragging its
show length along, but judge Lynch
with his masked bailiffs will
him every time. outgeneral
The impetuous Absalom inaugurated
the first real lynching of which
we have any detailed account, when
he killed his half- brother for a crime
that outraged the peace of his father's
kingdom. Just such lynchings have
followed similar crimes all along down
the ages and it seems that they will
continue to prevail to the end of time,
or until the human fiends that provoke
them cease to be found upon
face of the earth. the
