The statistics of crime in the United
States during the past year present some
There has
significant features. been an
average of two murders a day throughout
the have
averaged only two a week. Remembering
the results of recent murder trials and
the influence of a false and sickly sentimentality
this disproportion is not surprising
, but it nevertheless affords ground
for serious reflection. There have been
fifty- seven lynchings. Considering our
enormous population, vast stretch of
territory, and the comparatively lawless
character of the sections in the south and
west where nearly all these lynchings
have occurred, their number certainly
gives no reason for regarding lynch law
as an inevitable accompaniment of Amer
ican life. Nor does the south present
such a ghastly showing as it has been the
fashion to attribute to that section. Of
the 730 murders of the year only 212 were
committed in the entire south, while
there were 131 murders in New York
state alone, of which seventy- six were in
this city and fourteen in Brooklyn. Of
the 101 executions during the year, fifty-
three, or more than half, took place in
the southern states, which furnished only
one- third or one- quarter of the murders!
while in New York state, in which about
one- sixth of the total number of murders
took place, there were only four executions.
Thiswould seem to indicate that the law
takes its course in the south as well as
the north, and that the legal punishmenthe
of homicide in the former section is by
The number of
no means a rarity.
lynchings was fifty- seven, Colorado leading
with six, while there were twenty- five in
all the southern states. Of the 383 suicides
of the year, 123 took their lives in this
city, and 26 in Brooklyn; New York state
furnishing 184, or about half the total
number. Surely here is a call for another
apostle of the gospel of relaxation in this
city. Lynchings New York has been
free from, but taking the rest of the dark
record must be said that she appears
to very it poor advantage.- N. Y. Tribune.co
