of Reminiscences of Ben Hill of Georgia.
A Southern correspondent relates the fol
Suez lowing incidents in the career of the late
Senator Ben
ad H. Hill: In 1855 Mr: Hill declared
himself a candidate for congress in the
has
Fourth Congressional District, and at an in
formal meeting of representatives of the
that
Whig party, held in the town of Newman, his
The
candidacy was indorsed. In this campaign
Mr. Hill was in reality the candidate of the
American or" Knownothing" party, which
of had just taken shape in Georgia. He was opposed
by ex- Chief Justice Hiram Warner, of
the Greenville, who ran as the nominee of the
Democratic party. The race was warm and
. closely contested. Warner winning by the
tritling majority of 66 votes in a district which,
prior to that time, was acustomed to roll
up a democratic majority of 2.500 votes. In
1856 Hill was placed on the electoral ticket
for Millard Fillmore. It was during this year
, that his wonderful powers on the" hustings"
. were first shown to the best advantage, he
having met and vanquished both Alexander
H. Stephens and Robert Toombs in debate
in
of Lexington
the town, Oglethorpe
County. Toombs didn't care to fight hiin,
but Stephens was so incensed at the
new great man who had literally laid him out
on his own stamping ground that he
the forth
with challenged him. In reply Hill wrote that
the celebrated note which is now a part of the
political history of the State. It was in these
words:" I will not fight you. I have a con
science and a family. You have neither." In
1858 Hill was retained to defend William A.
Choice, who killed the bailiff, Webb, at Atlan
.
ta. The case is reported in 34 Georgia, and is
by famous. Bill Choice, as he was called, was a
man of good education and marked talent,
belonging to one of the best families of Rome,
Ga. While on a visit to Atlanta he got on a
spree, and while drinking with some friends
in the bar of the old Atlanta Hotel, which
then stood where the Kimball House now
stands, James Webb, the justice court bailiff,
handed him a notice showing that he had
been sued for$ 10. This so enraged Choice
that he attempted to punish Webb on the
spot, but was prevented by bystanders.
in
Early the following morning, fresh from the
a night's debauch, Choice walked into Prior
street, and, seeing Webb standing on the op.
posite side of the street, several hundred feet
away, drew his pistol, and having taken de
liberate aim, shot him down without the slightest
warning. The town was in an uproar in
a few minutes, and many of the best citizens
were so outraged at the act that they
, declared for lynch law. Choice defied the officers
, saying that he would kill the first man
who laid hands upon him. He was finally
captured by strategy and safely lodged in the
, lock- up just before the howling mob, clamorous
for his blood, reached the station- house.
Many able lawyers were engaged to defend
him, young Hill among the number. Public
opinion was against the prisoner. The defense
pleaded insanity, and after the
and most exciting trial in the annals of Ful
ton County, the prisoner was convicted. Hill
had thrown his whole soul into the case, and
was bent upon saving his client. In those
days the pardoning power was vested in the
State Senate. Hill went back to Troup County
, made the Choice case an issue in the campaign
, and was elected to the state Senate,
where he made his celebrated speech for the
pardon of Choice Of this remarkable effort,
State Senator William Harris, of Worth County
, once said:" It was the grandest effort that
ever fell human Mrs. Choice, the
good and lovely mother of the prisoner, dressed
in the deepest black, leaned upon the arm
of young fill, as, pale, slender, and thoughtful
, he walked down the aisle. The galleries
were packed, and the excitement was smothered
but intense. Hill spoke many hours.
,
His tongue seemed' to drop manna,' for surely
such exquisite strains of pathos never fell up
on the air. The Senate was in tears. The President
wept aloud. The women screamed. I
shall carry to the grave two sentences of that
marvelous speech. They ring in my ears even
now, and that scene was enacted twenty- five
years ago. He said, speaking of Choice's in
sanity:' Soft as the zephyr from the orange
grove, carrying the prayer of an angel, the
spirit of Webb will whisper in your ear, Spare
him for he knows not what he did.' And
again:' If you hang William H. Choice, in
scribe upon the gallows in letters of blood,
that all time may syllable the shame, this is
Georgia's Lunatic Asylum.'' Choice was declared
insane by an overwhelming vote and
sent to the asylum. Hill was the ablest and
bitterest opponent in Georgia of the reconstruction
measures, and at the peril of expa.
triation, delivered a speech of the boldest
and most fiery invective in Davies' Hall at
Atlanta in 1866, in which he denounced the
United States authorities and fiercely vituperated
and defied the
solian
diery, who, accompanied by their officers
, formed part of the audience. Toombs,
Stephens, Jenkins, and other public men had
been asked to address the people on the
situation, bit Hill alone had the audacity to
speak his sentiments in public. He continued
his opposition to reconstruction by writing
his" Notes on the Situation" -which are
regarded in the South as the finest philippics
since those of Demosthenes- and a
meeting of the people of Georgia, held at at
lanta in 1868, he gave utterance to his celebrated
Bush Arbor invective, in which he not
only advocated the social ostracism of Re
publicans in Georgia, ut advised their own
wives to leave them. Howell Cobb and Bob
Toombs spoke at the same time and place,
and at the conclusion of Hill's speech Toombs
arose in the presence of the vast crowd and
congratulated him, saying: e" Sir, it was the
grandest effort I ever heard." Bullock fled the
State in 1871, and upon the coming into power
of the Democrats, in 1872, Hill, Gordon, and
Stephens offered for the senate. Gordon was
elected. Upon the death of McMillan, of the
Ninth Congressional District, Hill, who lived
part of the time at Athens, in that district,
became a candidate for the nomination. The
convention broke up in a row, made
the race before the people, beating his oppo.
nent, Estes. His term having expired, he was
renominated and returned to Congress with
out opposition. In 1876, while still in Congress,
he antagonized Norwood for the United States
Senatorship. The people held meetings in
of the
ture to elect Hill, and he made a three hour
speech, advocating his claims in a masterly
manner, and then left for Washington. Nor
wood remained in Atlanta, buttonholing
the members. The galleries were crowded
during the three days' balloting,
and the populace for Hill. Nor
were
wood held his own pretty well, but the
pressure was too great, and on the third day,
a man his vote to the
Norwood men stampeded, and enough votes
were changed to give Hill the prize. The Re
publicans and negroes in the Legislature voted
for Hill. It has often been said that in
oratory Cicero was Mr. Hill' model, and it is
known that of the great men of this country
his favorite was Henry Clay. Hill himself
gave the best definition of the true orator
( not excepting that of Demosthenes) the correspondent
ever heard. He said:" The true
orator is he who has the intellect to see the
truth, the heart to feel it, and the courage to
speak it." How could a definition be more
concise or comprehensive? Mr. Hill was distinguished
in civil as well as criminal law,
and received the largest fee ever paid to a
lawyer in Georgia in a single case. It was
$ 50,000, paid by Thomas Metcalf, one of the
wealthiest men of Augusta, in a cotton claim
case argued by in the United States Court
at Savannah just Hill after the war.
