Want to L ch the Ripper.
LONDON, Feb. 18.- The latest discovery
made by the police in connection with the
Whitechapel murder bids fair to connect
the man Sadler, now in custody, with the
" Jack the Ripper" crime. The police
now have in their possession a sharp,
dangerous looking knite stained with
blood and showing traces of having recently
been washed. The blood stains
were examined microscopically by Dr.
Phillips, the police surgeon attached to
the street police station. Dr.
Phillips has no doubt that the stains are
those of human blood. This formidable
knife has been traced to the possession of
Sadler, who was a fireman on board the
steamer which recently arrived from
Turkey. The police have no doubt that
Sadler was the murderer of" Carroty
Nell
From the time that it became known
that Sadier had been arrested and was
formally charged with the murder the
in and
greatest
about Whitechapel. The Stepney police
station, where the prisoner was detained,
has been surrounded by a vast crowd of
people, mostly women. Wild threats of
lynching and tearing the prisoner to
pieces were uttered by the most excited.
When the man was removed to the
police court an immense force of police
was employed and every precaution was
necessary in order to prevent the White
chapel mob from lynching the blood
stained prisoner. Opinions differ as to
whether the man charged with the murder
of" Carroty Nell" is the murderer
known as" Jack the Ripper." The inhabitants
of Whitechapel believe that he
is, but the police have not committed
themselves to an opinion on the subject
up to the present.
The knife found on Sadler is of
American make and is of the kind usually
carried by sailors. The shait is of nickel
and the blade, four inches long, and of
well tempered s'eel, curves sharply to a
point. When formerly charged in court
the prisoner turned pale, but protested
The police on being asked whether they
thought that Jack the Ripper had really
been secured, replied:" Well, we'll see
about that as soon as we have ascertained
his connection with the crime." Dur
the the prisoner tre
ing hearing
quently interupted the witnesses with
such expressions as" Now be careful."
and I want to jog your memory.
Evidence was given as to the prisoner's
injuries when he was treated at the London
hospital. Sadler said there were a few
questions he would like to ask, but he was
not in a fit condition to do so, as he had
had nothing to est since his tea last night,
and he had been knocked about from cell
to cell. He was finally remanded for
week. a
