NEXT SUNDAY- The Camera
STEVENS TESTIFIES
IN HIS OWN BEHALF.
DENIES HAVING BEEN IN
THE ALEY MOB.
Says He Was at Home When the
Humphrieses Were Lynched
-Evidence All In.
REPUBLIC SPECIAL,
Palestine, Tex., Jan. 2.- Testimony in the
case of Robert Stevens, charged with being
one of the mob that lynched James Hum-
phries and his two sons, closed to- day, and
the arguments of attorneys were begun.
Stevens himself was on the stand last
night. He stated that on the night of the
lynching he was at home. About supper
time Johnnie King came rushing in and
told them that John Cain's child was very
ill and the folks wanted Mrs. Stevens to
go over for the night. Defendant said
he accompanied his wife part of the way
to Cain's home, returning home to his children
, as his cousin, who was demented, was
there, and he did not think it safe to leave.
the children with him. Shortly after returning
Sam Hall, Gaddis and defendant's
brother, James, came up to spend the evening
. James came over to see his cousin
and Gaddis and Hall were there to assist
in giving Edward Blythe instructions in
lodge work. They waited some time for
Blythe, but he failed to come.
James and Sam Hall departed about 10
o'clock; Gaddis a short time after. Witness
retired between 11 and 12 o'clock.
On cross- examination Stevens denied trying
to borrow a gun prior to the murder.
As to his mustache, he admitted that he
shaved on the Sunday following the murder
, and at Athens, when in jail, he used a
pocket- knife. He was intimate with Hall
and Gaddis and friendly to Joe Wilkerson,
He knew James Humphries well. He knew
the boys only by sight. He had no ill- feeling
toward them.
Stevens stoutly denied belonging to any
law and order league, and said he never
went on a hunt for Patterson.
Testimony in the case closed at 10 o'clock
this morning and immediately District Attorney
Crook took the floor and occupied
the attention of the court until 12:30 reviewing
the evidence in behalf of the State.
Attorney Faulk for the defense followed
Mr. Crook.
To- morrow morning A. W. Gregg will appear
for the defense and argument will be
closed by Mr. Morris for the State.
STOCKHOLDERS' MEETINGS.
Officers and Directors
Corporations
Named.
Several incorporated companies held annual
meetings yesterday and elected directors
to serve for the ensuing year. The Har-
gadine- McKittrick Dry Goods Company's
election resulted in the selection of two
additional directors, making the number
eight instead of six, as heretofore.
The directors who will serve for the ensuing
year are: C. C. English, M. P. Donahoe,
G. H. Allen, Thomas McKittrick, E. J.
Glasgow, Jr .; E. S. Lewis, Hugh McKit-
trick and Walter McKittrick. The board
will meet to- day to elect officers.
The Southern Commercia 1 and Savings
Bank elected the following directors: John
Beckert, Jr .; Peter Cummings, Frank W.
Feuerbacher, Fred Hoffmeister, W. E. Hup-
pert, William Kinsey, August J. Lang.
George Lay and Fred Ulrich.
Stockholders of the O. J. Lewis Mercantile
Company elected G. J. Lewis president, B.
W. Clark vice president, G. H. Lewis
treasurer, and R. E. L. Winter secretary.
These officers constitute the Board of Directors
.
The John F. Donovan Hotel Company, at
the annual meeting of stockholders yesterday
, elected Martin Shaughnessy president
, and R. M. Nichols secretary, and
these gentlemen and Daniel Dillon form the
Board of Directors.
At the annual meeting of the Carleton Dry
Goods Company, T. G. Ratcliffe, Herman
Diel, Murray Cariton, George Augustine,
John R. Curlee, S. Wilson, H. H. Evans,
Otto Cramer and J. 1. Carleton were elected
directors. Murray arleton was chosen
president, George Augus ne vesi-
vice
dent, John R. Curlee secretary, S. G.
Wilson treasurer.
George A. H. Mills, who was formerly
with D. R. Francis, Bro.& Co., yesterday
succeeded Irwin Z. Smith as secretary of
the Union Trust Company, and Adolph H.
Stille succeeded Myron Westover as trust
officer of that company.
Mr. Smith and his wife have gone to
Florida. On his return he will engage in the
real estate business. Mr. Westover will resume
the practice of law.
NOTICE OF CONSOLIDATION.
Merging of Electric Light, Heat
and Power Companies.
Another step was taken yesterday in the
proposed consolidation of the light, heat
and power companies of the dty by filing
with the Recorder of Deeds a notice of the
consolidation of the Imperial Fectric Light,
Hert and Power Company and the Consolidated
Electric Company. Th new company
is to be called the Imprial Electric
Light, Heat and Power Compan. Its capital
stock is$ 1,500,000, one- half of hich is paid.
Hugh H. Harrison holds 12.3370-100 shares
Charies Hodgman, 1,862 50-10 res; E. G.;
