civilized commu- chants had been furnishing, for a week pre Va., to
disgusting was its vious, a quantity of goods to servants upon or-
effect of that ders purporting to have been written by cit- bers, on
violence inevitably izens, but which turned out to be forgeries. tion only
, and an emu One of the orders was presented to Mr. the rest on
of life shown the bandwriting that something was wrong, ranging in
a criminal and refused to supply the goods. On en farms and
immolated him quiring the next day it was ascertained that settlements
thus allowing not only the one to Mr. Thompson, but nu- served, the
same ungov- merous others to different merchants bad will compensate
the original been forged. The negroes when questioned now asked
after hanging stated that they had been sent for the goods A company
on which he and the orders given to them by a white pahannock
the corpse was man whom they didn't know. Suspicion forming,
up, and a pointed to a man by the name of J. II. Pace the Spring
lot, the box who has been living in Charlottesville for for the
rudely filled in, nearly a year. A warrant for his arrest was promises.
to decay like obtained and an officer went in pursuit of More
service the him. As the constable approached the house subscribers
this was not where Pace was staying, Pace saw him and ments will
early, some of ran for the woods. After a long pursuit, du- they are
the lower order, ring which he dropped a bundle of goods, he sing will
of the State was caught a little out of town and brought to sible. For
the grave, jail. The goods in the bundle were identified agencies,
placing it ia as a part of those furnished by Mr. Collier
on, drove it to upon one of the forged orders. This fact February
where the horri- and other circumstances equally as strong, The above
time with will be introduced as evidence against the in many
its agonized prisoner. Pace is a young man of about 24 and populous
day hideous. years of age, and was last occupied in driv- the benefit
companion ing the mail coach from this place to Scotts- that we
of the ghast- ville. He is the son of highly respectable ings who
on which was and worthy parents, of this County, upon porium,
feed, and then whom this news will fill with a crushing is said that
the sound
again buried blow.- Charlottesville Adv.
upon themselves never viewed
duty. THE WHEAT AND TOBACCO CROPS.- The no one to
wheat of Albemarle is sufficiently advanced the land
devour-" Dyne to enable us to form a somewhat reliable eal- never yet
her dome-
;" Nothing culation of the approaching harvest. With tipped
The Dead Se the exception of some farmis, on the Rivanna, metal- covered
last, as you which have excellent crops upon them, the for their
time publishing prospects in the County are very inferior, an adequate
is now issued promising less than an average yield. The them
is one of wheat in Augusta and other valley counties, hance the
younger Eng- is even inferior to that of Albemarle. tent to
as
the best of The Tobacco plant beds in good order present
are of
ry
are the three and will furnish more plants than can be Since
volumes used. The planters were quite generally en- careful
Central Afri- gaged last week in setting out plants. The pahannock
come. But season has been so far, quite propitious for The"
and Central securing good' stands.' If no accidents hap- which this
done in the pen, the crop of tobacco, in Albemarl, for erable
, Richardson this year, will be the largest ever raised .-- land of
lost. Africa Charlottesville Advocate. the difficulty
longer. But I 170 acres
out his nose A MURDER. A murder was committed chased for
, to pierce to in the lower part of this county near Neap- indeed it
of the Nile. sico creek, on Sunday last. The victim was group of
upon that gloria colored man, the property of Mr. John cultivation
any American. Fairfax, his throat presented the appearance and only
names great of problem travel of having been choked; there were also marks poles Rappahannock and
of violence upon his body.
and no Ameri- Several negroes were examined by the Jus- Rappahannock
New York. tices present, but nothing was elicited by upon which
which any light could be thrown upon the made to
Theatre.
the sensible
prominent inci- subject.- Brentsville Journal. reason for
, Mr. Eng-
CROPS DESTROYED.- On Friday, the 5th inst. point, as
play of start-
, such as Dr. Union District, and Fairfield District, S. C, vast metropolis
Mrs. Cunning were visited by a terrific hail storm, which sity Cordilleras for
