The legislation lately enacted in many
JUDGE LYNCH AND COURTS.
States with a view to preventing a resort
to lynch law has been subjected
, to a prac-
ticai trial in South Carolina and has been
found wanting. The first case under
South Carolina anti- lynching statute the re-
technical grounds.
sulted in an acquittal of the defendants on
Newsence Charleston the indebted to We are
and Courier for the following information:
The case of isaac Brown, as administrator
of the estate of Lawrence Brown, deceased.
against Orangeburg county was next taken
up for trial. This was a case against the
county for the lynching of Lawrence Brown,
colored, during the first part of the year 1897.
This case is especially worthy of attention, as
it is the first case brought under the act of
1896, passed in conformity with the clause in
the new constitution providing for an action
against a county for damages for the benefit
of the heirs- at- law of a deceased party in case
of lynching.
C. P. Brunson testifled that while a magistrate
in the city he had issued a warrant for
the deceased, and had him arrested; that he
had issued a lischarge for deceased a few
days afterwards, upon the request of the
prosecutor in the case. The alleged lynching
occurred on night the deceased was re
leased from Jall.
The defense announced that they would ask
the court to dismiss the case on the ground
that the act under which action was brought
only contemplated an action for damages
against a county in cases where the party
lynched has been taken from the custody of
public offlcers by the lynchers.
In delivering the opinion Judge Aldrich said
that the question in his mind was whether
the act and constitutional provision was to
stop lynching in general more than particu
Inrly to stop the connivance of officers of the
law in permitting lynching or not preventing
It. His construction was that both
of the act should be taken together, and sections they
referred only to the lynching of prisoners or
persons in the hands of the officers of the
law. As the testimony did not bear out facts.
sufficient to base a verdiet for the plaintiff in
the face of the above ruling of the court, the
jury was directed to find for the defendant.
What is the natural inference from
case? Simply that anti- lynching statutes this
can be as easily evaded as any other crim-
The dependence of society
Inal statutes.
is not on these special enactments, but in
the good faith and intelligence of the judges
of tria! courts. Here was a judge who
failed to grasp the legislative intent. In
consequence the statute falls to the ground.periority
This judge will possibly go before his constituents
again and receive indorsement.
Not until the courts are bold enough to
face any adverse public opinion and do
their duty, regardless of consequences,
we ever hope to see anti- lynching laws can or
any other laws administered. But not until
the judges of our courts are freed from
the domination of popular opinion can we
hope to find them independent. How shall
we reform our judiciary system is the
question of the hour. vital
