porter who shouted:" For Gods sake Richmond, Oct. 25.- The story pub
man, if you own a boat, come quickly. lished in a Washington paper that Gen
train is in the river and people eral Fithugh Lee and Governor O'Fer
drowning. rall had declared in favor of sound
" I dressed myself and accompanied money in 1896 at the instance of Sec
the porter got into my rowboat and retary Carlisle has attracted very con
rowed around the curve to where the siderable attention in political circles
train in the river. When we here. The sound money men of Vir
was
which were sub- ginia time and again appealed to Gen
reached the cars,
merged nearly to their roofs, the en- eral Lee to come to their help and write
gine being entirely out of sight, the something that could be used in their
crews of the tugboat were making of interest, but if he ever wrote any such
forts to save the passengers. The first letters they were personal communi
man I saw them take out was. I think, cations. Within the past ten days Gen
agent of the express car. The first eral Lee has declared that he belleves
persons we succeeded in rescuing were in majority rule in party affairs. He
two Chinamen, who were sitting on the has been asked if he had been here dur
roof of the smoker. One had his arm ing the presidential election if he would
broken. We put them ashore and then have voted for Bryan. His answer, It
took three more persons off the top is understood, was that he would, while
another car. At the same time people differing from that candidate and his
their underclothes were being taken platform on many questions. Gover
of the sleeping cars by the crews of O'Ferrall shown
out nor, when the article
the several tugs. One man on shore, in the Washington paper, sald:" If
with an arm cut off, was dying, and we there is no more truth in the story
made his last moments as comfortable about Geueral Lee and Captain Wise
as possible. than there is about me, it is a fabrica-
Five men were rescued from the top tion out of the whole cloth."
of a floating car a few minutes after
Greenville, S. C., Oct. 25.- The News
and the down accident taken the road to. Peekskill They. They were were, about put admitted on ten a miles train to against says:" one Charges of the have Fairfield been county brought dis-
the wounds Helping were Hand dressed hospital. Of the, where five three their pensers ards and for minors selling. This whisky is most to drunk unfor--
were Chinamen, and none were fatally tunate maintained. Heretofore a marvelous the dispensers record in have re-
injured.
was W. in S. one Langford of the, of last Bayonne coaches, which N. J., sale gard to to children the regulations and inebriates forbidding. Never the
before has a charge of violation been
remained on the track. He secured an
ax and chopping out a panel of one of made. The inference is that the law
the partly submerged cars helped to has been kept holy. True, dispensers
have stolen. Dispensers have embez-
rescue four people.
accident General was Manager caused Toucey by the says bed: of" The the zled thousands. Some of of dollars them, have and the appropriated state has
railroad being washed out in some in dealt with them tenderly and charita
explicable manner. In this undermined bly. The state of South Carolina has
condition the track sank as soon as the remembered the frailty of mankind,
weight of the train was put on it, and and has allowed some 20 or 30 of its
the was embankment of course precipitated giving away into the train the employes should have to gone steal into the the money state which treasury
. Many who have robbed citizens
river.
have been tried, convicted and sent to
" Such conditions as this we have never
out and looked over as good accident this this for as spot piece. any Trains or for of section difficulty years track have and of was been of the years considered any railroad running with- kind,. who the allowed expected this penitentiary before have to that stolen retain their in, moments have eyes but their those been one liberties of might generously dispensers forgetful. With have
Not only was the roadbed the hardest ness they would have sold to wine bib
kind of an embankment, but it was bers and tipplers. But for years they
strengthened by a retaining water wall did not. Not once that anybody heard
of solld masonry three feet thick."
Other railroad officials were of the
opinion that a quicksand foundation THE NEW YORK MAYORALTY.
of some kind below the water line was
responsible for the giving way of the The Different Partles' Figures on
roadbed. Which Their Party Will Win.
The complete list of the dead is as New York, Oct. 27.- With only five
follows: days remaining in which to complete
Thomas Reilly, St. Louis; E. A.Green, the work of the municipal campaign
Chicago; W. H. G. Myers, Tremont, N. the political situation in greater New
Y .; Guiseppe Taguana, New York; W. York continues to afford large oppor
Schenckenbecker, Newark, N. J .; Sam tunities for conjecture. So far as the
uel Williams, Buffalo; A.G.McKay, pri betting is indicative of results Tamma
vate secretary to General Superintend ny appears to have the best of it, al
ent Van Etten; John Foyle, engineer, though there are offers of Republican
Eas: Albany; John Q. Tompkins, money upon terms that should prove
fireman, East Albany; Mrs. Robert H. alluring to those who have cash with
Lindsman, Utica, N. Y .; Chin Lee Song, which to back up their predictions that
San Francisco; China Fong Hop, 20 Van Wyck will be chosen the first
years old, brother of Lee Song, San mayor of the great municipality. The
Francisco; Chin Quong Hong. New odds on Van Wyck against the field
York, father of Fong Hop and Lee are quoted at betting headquarters as
Song; Hoo Wuh, New York; Lee Tong 3 to 1, but at the rooms of the Repub
street, New York, mer said
Sing, 17 Mott lican campaign committee it is
chant; Wong Gin, Hop Sing and an that those who have a desire to bet
unidentified Chinaman; unidentified against General Tracy can be accom
woman, about 34 years old, said to be modated with even money to any ex
from Hudson, N. Y .; Isaac Retten tent they may desire.
berg, of New York. Whoever shall be the victor in the
Chauncey M. Depew, president of the mayoralty contest will win by a plu
Central railroad, declares may
York total vote
New rality vote only. The
that the wreck Cit
there are suspicions The secretary of the
that be 525,000.
at Garrisons was caused by a dyna izens' Union asserts that Low will win
mite explosion. with 10,000, Van Wyck receiving 135,
000 and Tracy and George 100,000 each
A Western Blizzard.
The Republican claim is 210,000 for
Cripple Creek, Oct. 27.- Not in year Tracy, 145,000 for Van Wyck, 90,000 for
has there been such a blizzard here as
George and 60,000 for Low. The George
that which now prevails. High winds men declare their candidate will have
are drifting the snow. Traffic on rail over 200,000 votes.
roads is suspended and telephone wires
are down. Canyons are choked with WE MUST NOT INTERFERE.
snow, and it is impossible to see a
account of the blinding
hundred feet on Uncle
storm. The weather is very cold, and Spain Will Get Sam's Along Help Without.
It is feared there will be great suffering Madrid, Oct. 25.- In the special note
among the poor. to United States Minister Woodford
the government declares that Spain has
Papal Intervention Dented.
done all in her power to end the war
Rome, Oct. 26.- Cardinal Rampolli
Cuba and cites many sacrifices which
authorizes the denial of papal inter
have been made by the nation,
vention in the case of Professor Schroe number of troops sent to Cuba and
der, of the Catholic university at Wash
reforms which are to be carried out
, ington, and states that the matter is
the island, which are fully described
entirely in the hands of the bishops.
The note ends with the statement that
. GENERAL SOUTHERN NEWS." foreign Spain will power not to admit interfere the right any of of any
affairs."
Fairmont, W.Va., Oct. 25.- Mrs. Sarah There is no doubt that the govern
Jane Murphy, of West Fairmont, ob
ment's reply will represent the deep
tained& divorce from her husband this feeling of the nation. The note dwells
morning in the intermediate court, and at length on filibustering and" other
, this afternoon married M. Waldo. material and moral assistance which
.
Atlanta, Ga., Oct. 26.- Harry A. Cas- has chiefly contributed to the rise
sin, ex- bank cashier, is a fugitive from duration of the rebellion, and which
justice. When his case was called in turn has damaged American interests
It clearly intimates that Spain
the criminal superior court yesterday
not continue the" forbearance shown
he did not respond. Cassin was indicted
last spring for embezzling$ 71,- by Senor Canovas del Castillo and
- 000 of the funds of the Georgia Loan Duke of Tetuan during the past
He years," and that she now calls upon
Savings and Banking company.
gave bond in the sum of$ 10,000. It is American government to" fulfill
the future the rules
said that Cassin is now in South Africa, strictly in
and that he is doing well in a business international law," because" the
cess of the new home rule policy
venture in which he engaged.
at the speedy pacification of Cuba chiefly
Memphis, Oct. 23.- President Thorn depend upon the conduct of the United
ton, of the board of health, last night
States."
, officially declared that a case of yel
case Dawson
The.
Memphis
Flour
.
Cornering in
low fever exists in
Skaguay, Alaska, Oct. 27.- There
is that of B. H. McFerrin, previously
, reported as suspicious. He is a yard corner in flour at Dawson City,
, conductor, and was taken sick on Sun- none can be had at any price. This
day. There is no excitement among the statement made by Cliff T. Moore
the people of Memphis, and few if any one of a party of four who reached
and
are leaving the city. The leading Monday night, having come direct
.
physicians of Memphis declare that Dawson City. There was plenty
there is no danger of the plague spread- flour in town, however, the available
Ing. supply being held for higher prices.
in Richmond, Va., Oct. 21.- James s. terprising speculators with money
cornered the flour, and while
are Bryant, one of the oldest and best
warehouses were filled to overflowing
known citizens of West Point, commit
there was not an ounce for sale.
was ted suicide there last night at the house
Moore states that when he left Dawson
of his daughter Mrs. William H. Lee.
, threats were being made that the
