Chicago Police Bullets Defend
Japanese Imperialism
WITH the news of Chicago police shooting into 5,000 workers demonstrating
at the Japanese Consulate, comes official estimates of the
casualties of the Japanese imperialist war against the Chinese people
on the Shanghai front are published in the" New York Times," March
17. Japanese bombs and machine- guns upon the defenseless population
of Chapei reaped a harvest of the fruits of imperialism estimated as
follows:
One hundred sixty thousand homeless families, totalling about' one
million people.
Three hundred fifty million dollars( gold) destruction of homes and
buildings.
Ten thousnad forty missing persons( bodies probably burned in ruins
of Chapei).
Six thousand eighty civilians killed( largely women and children).
Unknown tens of thousands of soldiers killed and wounded ..
Burning rage must rise in the heart of every worker against this
mass murder by Japanese imperialism. A fierce hatred of these murderers
for business, is sweeping the international working class, including
the Japanese workers who are heroically battling" their own" imperialist
government under the leadership of the Japanese Communist Party.
The slogan of the moment of the intrnational proletariat is," Defeat
the robber war of Japanese imperialism against the Chinese people." For
this end the masses seek for all possible channels to express their hatred
and abhorrence of the mass murders in Shanghai and Manchuria, and of
the preparations for an even larger war against the Soviet Union. For
this end the revolutionary proletariat supports fully every mass expression
of this hatred, including the movement for the boycott of Japanese
imperialism and its commerveand all popular expression hostile to its
foreign representatives, demanding they cease their activities and return
home. The revolutionary proletariat of all the world is in one solid front
for defense of the Chinese masses and support for the Japanese proletariat
in its struggle to overthrow its reactionary- feudal regime of the
Mikado, representing the landlord- capitalist combination. The slogan of
the Japanese workers:" Defeat Japanese Imperialism," is the slogan of
the workers of the whole world.
When war begins, as now in the Far East, all the disgusting hypo-
cricy of the pacifists nad social- traitors reveals itself in its ugly nakedness
. Thus the sudden turn- about- face of all such" friends of peace,"
on the question of boycott of Japanese imperialism. For years these
gentlemen exerted their utmost to lull the working class to sleep with
the assurance that war would be averted by the League of Nations through
the boycott against imperialist aggressors. But the moment a concrete
imperialist aggressor stands before the world with its sword dripping
with the blood of men, women and children, shed in the most unprovoked
mass slaughter known to modern history- at that moment every pacifist,
every social fascist, suddenly finds that for a thousand reasons the
moment for even a boycott is" not favorable" and most of them even come
out with a direct denunciation of the boycott as a" war measure." What
for years they extolled as the" preventive of war" now becomes the
greatest" instrument of war." They plead for" peace" with bloody Jap-
anese imperialist aggression!
Heywood Broun, spokesman for the Socialist party in the columns of
the capitalist" World- Telegram" of New York, expressed this reactionary
role of support for imperialism, when he attacked the Communist, campaign
against Japanese imperialism as" provocation of war"; the renegade
Lovestone, who always stands in the forefront of all such police-
agent work, repeats the slander. These worthy agents of the bourgeoisie
act, toward Japanese imperialist aggression, exactly as Heywood Broun
did towards Southern Jim Crowism and lynching of Negroes in the United
States, when he declared that he would not advocate the enforcement
of constitutional guarantees of Negro rights because that would require
a civil war against the white ruling class to carry through. Just as Broun
made his approval of Negro lynching in the name of" peace," he now
attempts to head off the mass hatred of Japanese imperialism by appeals
not to" provoke Japan to war," and the Japanese Socialist party is now
openly supporting the war of its imperialism. And this treacherous murderers
support is given with the excuse that it is a war in the interests
of" civilization and peace."
American and Japanese imperialisms have the sharpest antagonisms
over the division of the loot in China. But American imperialism is in
full agreement with Japanese imperialism as against the Chinese people,
against the Chinese revolution, against the Japanese working class, and
above all against the Soviet Union. American imperialism is trying by
all pressure, trickery, and provocation to bring about war between Japan
and the Soviet Union. American imperialism is itself, independently exploiting
, oppressing, and enslaving the Chinese masses. American imperialism
suppresses with blood and iron the efforts of the workers to rouse
the masses in this country against Japanese imperialism.
This is the significance of the murderous police clubbing and shooting
in Chicago against the 5,000 workers who gathered at the Tribune
Tower building to denounce the Japanese imperialist murderers at the
doors of the Japanese consulate.
The pacifists and renegades who plead that the mass hatred of Jap-
anese imperialism creates a danger of war, themselves carefully avoid all
collision with either Japanese or American imperialism.
The revolutionary workers who denounce Japanese imperialism and
its mass murder, who support the mass movement for boycott of Japanese
trade, who tell the official representatives of Japanese imperialism that
their presence in the country is a stinking offense in the nostrils of all
decent people- these workers find they must also face the bullets of Am-
erican police even at the doors of that most" anti- Japanese" capitalist
paper," The Chicago Tribune."
Only the revolutionary mass struggle can halt or delay the outbreak
of the world war for which imperialism has completely set the stage.
Only revolutionary mass protests can cause the war- makers to hesitate
as they balance on the brink of a new, unexampled world conflagration.
And only the revolutionary workers, following the leadership of the Communist
Party, actually challenge the war plans of both Japanese and
America imperialism and come into physical collision with all camps
of the imperialist war- makers.
That is the meaning of the demands that have come from the masses,
to really take up the boycott of the Japanese murders, and the ousting
of their representatives from the country. That is the meaning of the
slogans to defend the Chinese people against the robber war of Japanese
imperialism, to defend the Chinese Soviets, the only organizrs and leaders
of the Chinese masses, to defend the Soviet Union, fatherland of the
workers of the world. The bullets of the Chicago police last Saturday
proved the revolutionary efficacy of these slogans against both
and American imperialists. Japanese
