INDIANA LYNCH LAW.
DETAILS OF THE RIPLEY COUNTY
AFFAIR.
Summary Punishment Visited Upon
a Gang of Evil Characters- People
Tire of an Extended Series of
inal Acts- Gov. Mount Indignant Crim-.
Deed of Infuriated Mob.
The lynching of the five Osgood men
at Versailles, the county seat of Ripley
County, has, perhaps, no parallel in the
history of Indiana. The prisoners were
confined in the county jail on the charge
of burglary. They all resided in the town
of Osgood, and were supposed to belong
to an organized band of thieves and highwaymen
which has been robbing and terrorizing
the citizens of Ripley County for
a number of years. They were awaiting
trial for having attempted to break into
the general store of Wooley Bros. at Correct
Saturday night. Gordon and An-
drews were captured at the time after a
running fight, and after each had been
severely wounded. The other prisoners
were detained on the charge of having
assisted in th attempted burglary, and
whose guilt seemed evident. Public feelIng
had been aroused against the prisoners
because they had so often escaped
the penalties of the law.
Sheriff Henry Bushing and wife were
away from home. He had been badly
wounded while trying to capture the men
Saturday night, and the jail was in charge
of his brother- in- law, W. T. Kennen,
turnkey, and William Black. At 12:45
o'clock they were aroused by the ringing
of the door bell. Kennen and Black went
down and opened the door. Three masked
men with a revolver in each hand confronted
them. The leader said:" Hold
up your hands! We demand the keys of
the jail." Kennen looked into the muzzles
of six revolvers, and after some resistance
was taken to the kitchen and
found the keys. Kennen and Black were
locked in a cell and three men with revolvers
made their way through the grating
and others went to find the prisoners,
who had all retired.
In the lower cellrooms were confined
Levi, Shuler and Jenkins, and there the
visitors proceeded first. Levi was first
awakened, and, refusing to throw up his
hands at the command of the leader, two
pistol.shots were heard, and he fell to the
floor pierced to the heart. Shuler, lying
on his cot, refused to get up, but begged
for his life. A stroke upon the head from
a heavy stick silenced him, and he rolled
to the floor. Jenkins' fate was similar,
and the three bodies were carried to the
main corridor, and the lynchers made
where Gordon and
their way upstairs,
Andrews were found. They, being wounded
, submitted without much effort. Their
hands were tied behind them, ropes were
placed around their necks and they were
dragged down the stairway where their
companions lay. Ropes being placed
around the necks of all the order was
given," Pull on the ropes, boys, and hurry
up."
Hanged to an Elm Tree,
Two squares north of the jail on the
bluff near the famous" Gordon's Leap"
was found an old elm tree, and to its
toughened limbs were hanged the maim-
ed and bruised bodies of the five prisoners,
naked and ghastly. The scene was appalling
, and the bodies were soon cut
down and covered under the shade of the
tree. Hundreds visited the scene the fol-
owing day, and hardly a twig of the old
elm remains, having been carried away
by the curious throng.
A man named Hostetter a couple of
weeks ago had given a tip to the county
officials, and through him the men were
caught. He said they met and planned
at Jenkins' house, and he( Jenkins) said
he would help them out at any time, but
how much, if any, they were implicated
will never be known, as they were given
no chance to deny or defend themselves.
Osgood had grown notorious the last
two years on account of the many highway
robberies and hold- ups committed
there. Last winter an aged couple- Mr.
and Mrs. Rineking- living north of town
were tortured and robbed while alone at
their home. The night of April 1 Mr.
and Mrs. Baulkman, living six miles from
Osgood, were tortured by three masked
men, who demanded their money. They
made the old lady, who was quite infirm,
walk over red- hot coals to tell where her
money was. They got nothing but a gun
and a few trifles. The latter part of the
same month Mr. and Mrs. Kammon of
Milan were treated in a similar
by masked men. The two Dr. Josephs manner of
with charged arrested, were place Osgood
robbery, but proved an alibi and were
acquitted without trouble. Men have
been held up on the streets and houses
without number broken into the last two
years, but it seemed as though the guilty
ones could never be caught. How much
or how little these men were implicated
in these robberies may never be known.
Largest Number Ever Lynched.
The hanging is a blot on the name of
Ripley County. It is the largest number
ever hanged at a lynching in the State
and only the second rope execution ever
in the county. Twenty years ago Tim
Boyd of Moore's Hill, who was in jail for
committing an assault, was visited by a
mob and seventeen bullets shot into him,
but nothing has ever aroused the people
like this tragedy. People drove into Ver-
sailles from all over the county and
groups stood around discussing it. Schools
were dismissed and business is at a standstill
. The families of the men are almost
insane from the shock. The bodies were
taken to Osgood and delivered to their
several homes.
The sheriff received a message from the
Governor to use all means in his power to
apprehend the men composing the mob.
However, it seems that the sheriff is powerless
, as no means of identification of a
single man has been obtained. The Governor
, realizing this and also that the sympathies
of the community seemed with
the lynchers, sent Merrill Moores, deputy
attorney general, to the scene of the
tynching, with instructions to make a full
investigation and spare no expense
bringing the lynchers to justice. in
