From the Chicago Tribune.
The unexpected has happened in Ala
bama. George Howard, a farmer, member
of a mob that lynched a negro near We
tumpka some months ago, has been con
vieted of murder in the first degree and
been sentenced to imprisonment for life.
During the trial Howard admitted his
participation in the lynching and gave
the names of thirteen of his companions
who may yet be his associates in the penitentiary
.
There is special reason for satisfaction
with this conviction, because it was obtained
in one of the four states which
have been chief offenders in mob murders
. If a similar result could be reached
in other Southern states, and Northern
ones also- for in proportion to the number
of negroes and the degree of general
knowledge Indiana, Colorado and Kansas
are just as conspicuous offenders as Ala
bama, Georgia, Mississippi and Louisiana.
-there would soon be an end of lynching
and a restoration of the law's authority.
The Alabama conviction, taken in connection
with recent legislation and with
executive action in support of sheriffs in
that and some other states, shows that
there is a radical change of sentiment on
the part of state authorities and that they
are awakening to a realizing sense of a
new and alarming danger confronting
them- the danger of mob law in the place
of legal justice. So far as the negroes
themselves are concerned, lynching ply
leads to blind and fierce resentment. So
far as crime is concerned, it does not
have any deterrent effect." On
trary," says the State of Columbia the 3.
C., and statistics confirm its statement,
" there is reason to believe that if lynching
has any effect at all it is to promote
crime." Other prominent Southern journals
take the same view, and it is the correct
one, demonstrable by the criminal
records of every state in which lynchings
occur.
There is a still more serious side to this
matter. The effect of lynching upon the
white community is worse than upon the
black. The increase in their number, the
increase in barbarbus cruelty and the tendency
to regard lynching as a pastime are
degrading, brutalizing and criminalizing
the whites in some localities. If not arrested
by law it will soon bring many
communities under mob law and thus dis
organize soclety. No community can safely
permit power to pass from the hands
of the legal representatives of the people
into the hands of the mob. It is a menace
to the lives of others than criminals. It
is a danger to the rights of property and
the conditions of business. Its danger is
eloquently pointed out by the Nashville
( Tenn.) Advocate:" Mob law is a crime
against organized society, and in permit
ting it we are sowing the wind. The
storm of disregard for law is gathering
greater force, and if steps are not taken
to enforce the law more honestly and
more rigidly by the lawful punishment
of the guilty and the protection of the innocent
, we shall surely reap the whirl
wind." For reasons such as these there
is hope for better things in the
conviction. Alabama
