Life Story of Tex Rickard,
Soldier of Fortune, Reads
Like Arabian Nights Tale
Former Cowpuncher, Gambler, Oil Driller and Promoter
Tells Some Good Yarns About His
in the Early Days of the West Experiences
TEXANS ROB TRAIN
In his early days Tex drove many a
herd of cattle from Texas to Montana
for summer grazing. He sa there
wasn't a fence between the Red river
and the mouth of the Missouri in those
days.
" One spring I went north with the
Archer herd," said Tex." Bill Newbury,
Newt Gibson and Mart Moore were with
me on that trip. After we got to
Montana the trio proposed holding up a
train. I couldn't see it and said noth-
ing doing. Bill, Newt and Mart then
did the trick themselves, sticking up
the Northern Pacific express and get-
ting$ 60,000 in gold.
" Bill beat it back to Texas with his
share of the plunder and buried the
gold on his mother's ranch. The detectives
traced Newbury to Texas and
finally arrested him. He was taken
j back to Montana and after serving one
year his mother dug up the stolen gold,
returned it to the express company, and
Bill was pardoned.
" Newt Gibson. while manacled.
jumped off a movnig train and escaped
the Montana officers. He also returned
to Texas, grew a beard and rejoined
the Archer outfit the following spring.
Newt was the funniest looking cowpuncher
you ever saw, with a beard
a foot long. The boys knew who he
was, but said nothing. But he couldn't
fool the detectives, who eventually
grabbed him. Newt got off by returning
his share of swag. Moore then
square himself the the same way. The ex-
Tex Rickard, cowpuncher, gambler ,,
fistic promoter, oil driller, and general
soldier of fortune, has chased the
elusive dollar farther than any man
in America. The promoter of the Wil-
lard- Dempsey heavyweight championship
mill on July 4 operated the largest
gaming house in Nome, Alaska, when
the rush for gold was on. Later he
ran a faro bank in Goldfield that made
$ 1,000,000 in one year.
The winnings of Rickard's Goldfield
faro bank have never been exceeded
except by the famous Monte Carlo establishment
at Monaco, Curt Gunn's
Chicago Palace of Fortune. Dick Can-
field's noted Saratoga gambling establishment
and Honest John Kelly's cele-
brated Forty- second street house in
New York city never equaled Rick-
ard's Goldfield game in winnings any
one year of their histories.
When Rickard closed his Goldfield
faro bank he had$ 100,000 in bad checks.
He cashed everything that looked like
a check and pulled up with hundreds
that came back, marked" account exhausted
." Strange as it may seem, no
attempt was ever made to hold up any
of Tex's gaming establishments.
Speaking of hold- ups. Tex tells some
noted train
good yarns about some
robbers of the early days in the west.
" Back in the 80's I punched cattle
for Jim Archer up to Wichita Falls,"
said Rickard." One cold winter I
chummed with a chap named Foster
Crawford until I found that he had
a perverted brain. Foster confided
that his chief ambition was to rob the
Witchita Falls bank.
" That bank belongs to the man we
work for,' said I.
" What's the difference, so long as
we get the coin? replied Crawford.
" I'm a cowpuncher, not a bank robber
,' said I.
" Crawford and another boy, known
as the' Missouri Kid,' finally tackled
the Wichita bank, shot up the place and
got caught. The citizens of Wichita
Falls then took the prisoners from the
jail and strung' em to the nearest telegraph
pole.
" I saw the lynching. The' Missouri
Kid' died game, but Crawford collapsed
and had to be dragged to the
scene of the lynching. Burk Burnett,
one man for whom the great Burkbur-
nett oil field was named, handed the
Missouri Kid' chew of tobacco just
before they strung a him up."
press company got every dollar of the
$ 60,000 back. Those boys weren't bad
like Foster Crawford. They were just
foolish. All three afterward became
decent, law- abiding members of 80-
clety.
TEX'S FIRST TRIP TO" CHI"
Somebody mentioned Chicago and Tex
tore off a good yarn about his first trip
to the Illinois metropolis.
" I escorted a trainload of cattle to Chi-
cago and was grabbed by two hotel run-
hers as soon as I jumped off the train
near the stock yards," said Rickard.
" The hotel runners took my suitcase from
me and started to walk off. I pulled a
six shooter and one of the' cappers' grappled
with me. While we were wrestling
around, the gun went off and I was arrested
and locked up in the Harrison
Street station. The police justice fined
Ime$ 40 next morning for shooting up the
town, despite my protests that I was being
strong- armed out of my baggage.
" The next time I chaperoned a trainload
of cattle to Chicago a couple of dice
sharks gigged me for my bank roll as I
was departing for home and I rode from
Chicago to Texas on 10 cents. Passing
through Sedalia on the Missouri, Kansas
and Texas line, the train stopped and I
spied an apple orchard near the depot.
A farmer allowed me to help myself to
the apples. That afternoon I almost died
of the colic. I saved my lonely 10 cents
to buy a sandwich just before entering
Texas."
THRILLING RIDE
Returning from New York to Texas recently
, Rickard passed through the St.
Lcuis tunnel. It revived old memories.
" One trip north I rode through that
tunnel on the roof of a stock car," said
Tex." I was going north with a bunch
of cattle and climbed to the top of the
car in St. Louis. The train swung into
the tunnel before I knew where we were
headed. I laid down at full length, sur-
| mising the trip would be a short one.
" The train stopped in the tunnel and
the smoke and gases smothered me. I
fainted on the top of the car and was
found there by a switchman when the
train rolled onto the bridge. How I ever
missed rolling off the car is a mystery.
The switchman said he never heard of
anything like it before. If the switchman
had not discovered me in time I might
have dropped into the Mississippi river."
Tex says the funniest experience he
ever had was in a gaming house at Nome.
He owned this place. One cold night it
was packed with several hundred faro
fiends. All of
bank players and roulette
a sudden the door opened and a big St.
Bernard dog, with a rope tied to his neck,
entered.
" Somebody suggested watering the brute
and a pan was set in front of him. As
soon as he tasted the water the dog
trousers.
grabbed a bystander by the
The St. Bernard had the rabies.
p" It's a mad dog, somebody shouted,
and in three shakes of a lamb's tail my
gambling house was empty. People went
out the doors and windows pell mell.
Money and chips were scattered all over
i the floor. I finally got a gun and put the
poor dog out of his misery."
TEEMED WITH GAME
Talking about big game, Rickard recalled
one hunting trip with his father
in the early 80's around Wichita Falls.
" That country fairly teemed with game
at that time," declared Tex." My father
and myself killed a farm wagon load of
wild turkeys within a mile of Wichita
Falls that Christmas.
" We also shot a yearling buffalo heifer
on the outskirts of the town. Those turkeys
were distributed among the si-
dents of Henrietta, our home town, that
buffalo furnished the
The
Christmas.
for several
Rickard family with meat
weeks.
" Across the Red river in Indian territory
, now Oahoma, the grazing grass
was knee high and the entire country was
full of buffalo, deer, antelope, wild turkey
and other big game. It was a
paradise." sportsman's
