TWO LYNCHED
BY MOBILE MOB
AT PRITCHARDS
Masked Men Board Train and
Quietly Disarm Sheriff and
His Deputy
ASSAILANTS STRUNG TO
TREES AND LEFT IN WOODS!
Lynching Creates Intense Excitement
In Mobile and Hundreds Go Out to
Scene of the Crime- The
the Morbid Gather Mementoes.
October 6.- The crimes commit-
Mobile,
ted upon Edna May Fowler, Lillian May
Savell, Ruth Sossaman and attempts on
others whose names are not given, were
avenged by a party of forty- five men this
afternoon at 12:35 o'clock in a lonely place
just off the Holt road in the neighborhood
of Prichards station. The leaders
ordered the men, who were all armed with
revolvers, shot guns and rifles, not to
fire a shot and the orders were carried
out.
committed the first
Thompson, who
crimes that startled the people of Mobile
, and worked them up into fury, was
first strung up. A long half- inch rope
was thrown over the limb of a live oak
tree. He slowly strangled to death. The
body was jerked up a distance of about
fifteen feet and the rope fastened. According
to one of the leaders Thompson confessed
to him and called the Associated
hear it, but
reporter over to
Press
frightened, and said
Thompson looked
that he was not the man.
His body was swung up at 12:38 o'clock.
Conducted Very Quietly.
Robinson was hanged as soon as the
body of Thompson had been strung up.
The hanging of the negroes was conducted
in a very quiet manner, and during
the time that the work was going on,
hardly a word was spoken. At one time a
man in the crowd wanted to hurry the
lynching, but he was stopped until all
the arrangements were complete.
The negro Thompson was very sullen
from the time that he was taken off the
train until the rope was placed around
his neck. Neither of the men showed signs
of fear, Robinson saying all the time that
he was going to heaven. From the time
that Sheriff Powers left Selma this morning
at an early hour, he looked for trouble.
and was consequently very nervous. Several
times reports were received on the
train that the mob would be waiting at
stations along the line, ready to take the
prisoners and lynch him.
Eight Men Board Train,
When Mount Vernon was reached, eight
men wearing white masks boarded the
train. Five of them covered Sheriff Powers
and Deputy Charles Green with re-
lvovers and told them that they had come
for the prisoners as it was better to hang
them outside of Mobile and away from
the troops rather than perhaps sacrifice
the lives of some innocent people. The
revolvers of the sheriff and deputy were
taken from them. The conductor was then
asked to move all the people in the first
class coach to the rear seats as more of
the crowd were going to get on at Plateau
. The conductor willingly complied
with the request and some of the passengers
were also placed in the slepers.
One of the leaders who stood on the platform
of the train, heavily masked, said
the crowd which had just boarded the
train were all leading business men of
Mobile, and that their action had been
decided upon only after careful
ation. consider-
Bloodshed If Taken to City.
He said that if the negroes were taken
Into Mobile by the sheriff and tried under
military protection there would certainly
be bloodshed and their method was
the best.
When the train reached Creola, fifteen
miles from Mobile, a large number of
men wearing masks and one of them
carrying a bag which contained straps and
ropes, came on board and were given
their orders. At Pritchard's station the
masked mob with the prisoners closely
guarded got off the train and started
down the road. About 100 yards from the
tree on which the hanging took place the
ery was given to" hurry," and the mob
and prisoners broke into a run. After
running twenty- five yards a big oak tree
was reached and the mob stopped and
ropes were produced. Fearing trouble with
the neighborhood negroes scouts armed
with rifles guarded the main road. The
negroes were then strung up. Nearly
everybody in the crowd took hold of the
rope.
While the negroes were being hanged
strict orders from the leader rang out:
" Boys, do not fire a shot; we are carrying
out the will of the people."
Many Swarm to the Scene.
After the hanging most of the
masked men left, but it was only a few
minutes afterwards when men and
boys came swarming out to the place
in droves to witness the result. At 2
o'clock this afternoon there were at
least two thousand people on the
scene and the bodies at that hour were
still hanging.
Sheriff Powers made this statement:
" I did my duty to the last. When covered
by the heavily armed men I saw
it was useless to resist, and with guns
staring me in the face and being disarmed
I gave up the prisoners.
As soon as the news reached the city
that the two negroes had been taken
away from the sheriff by a party of
masked men, people began flock to
the scene of the hanging. to Some left
the city by conveyances, others walked
and some took the street cars to the
nearest point and then walked through
the woods to the trees where the ne-
groes were dangling from the limbs.
Some of the more morbib began to
gather souvenirs of the lynching in the
way of pieces of clothing, bark from
the trees and pieces of the rope, and
brought them to the city.
About 4 o'clock some of the crowd
suggested a bonfire be built and the
bodies be cremated, but wiser judgment
prevailed, and a justice of the
peace was called in, and empanelling a
jury, held an inquest over the bodies.
The verdict was that they came to
their death at the hands of persons unknown
.
There was vas no no disturbance in the
city. By order of the sheriff the bodies
were buried in potters field by the
city sexton later the this evening.
