Telegraph Pole and Riddles Remains
Mob in Arkansas Hangs Negro to
Had Been Placed in Argenta
Jail Charged With Firing
from Ambush
MOB WORKS QUIETLY AND
OFFICERS COME TOO LATE
Lynched Man Was Not Only Charged
With Shooting, but With MakIng
Inflammatory Speeches
to the Negroes.
Argenta, Ark., October 7- As a sequel
to the killing of John Lindsay and wound-
Milton Lind-
ing of his son Policeman
,
say, here last night, presumably by Gar-
rett Column and Charles Column, ne-
groes, H. Blackburn, a negro, was lynched
tonight at 10 o'clock at the corner of
Sixth and Main streets. The trouble orig-
when a white
September 12
inated on
man named R. R. McDonald killed a negro
musician named Wiley Shelby.
Next day at the inquest held at the
Column's undertaking store, a difficulty
arose, in which Robert Column was killed
and Deputy Constable Ed Lindsay and
Garrett Column severely wounded, the
latter emerging from the hospital only
yesterday. Policeman Milton Lindsay, a
brother of Ed Lindsay, was also hurt at
that time.
Fired Upon From Ambush.
Last night Policeman Milton Lindsay
and his father were walking past the
Column store, when they were fired on
from ambush. John Lindsay was killed on
the spot. His son was severely wounded
but managed to crawl out of range. When
the police and citizens attempted to enter
the store they were fired on. It is supposed
Charles and Garrett Column did the
shooting. Later in the night, thinking the
Column brothers were still locked in the
rear rooms of the store, the place was
dynamited, but the negroes had escaped
unseen in the darkness in the early part
of the trouble. They were still at large.
At 1:30 o'clock this mornng Will Hard-
ing, a painter, was halted on the street
by unknown parties, whether black or
white he could not tell in the darkness.
He was asked if he was black or white.
On replying that he was white, he was
to go back, and while leaving he
told was shot in the back.
Two thers Fired Upon.
At 2 o'clock James Mahoney, a contractor
, and Al Belding, a reporter of the
Little Rock Gazette, while going to see
Harding, discovered that a house was on
fire. Mahoney fired his pistol in the air
to give the alarm, and immediately the
two men were fired upon from four different
quarters with shotguns. Mahoney
was painfully wounded in the hand. Beld-
ing's clothes were peppered with bird shot
but none entered his body. That ended the
developments for the night, and it was
hoped and believed no further outbreak
would occur.
At noon today, H. Blackburn, 37 years
of age, a negro, who conducts a confectionery
store in Argenta, was arrested on
suspicion of being the man who fired on
Mahoney and Belding. No trouble was an-
ticpated, the town being quiet all day,
but as a precaution Mayor Faucette and
Sheriff Kavanaugh swore in fifteen extra
policemen and the sheriff sent several
extra deputies to assist the police.
Lynching Quick and Businesslike.
The lynching tonight was quietly put
through in a business- like way. Shortly
before 10 o'clock four masked men entered
the police station from the rear and
one covered the turnkey with a pistol,
while the other got his keys, quickly unlocked
Blackburn's cell and took him out
the back way. Not a shot was fired and
there was no loud talking, so that Policeman
Pratt, Sheriff Kavanaugh and two.
deputies who were standing on the street,
a few blocks away knew nothing of what
was going on until they heard several
shots fired at Main and Sixth streets. Running
there they found Blackburn already
dead, hangled to a telegraph pole, while
the crowd around were apparently merely
onlookers. Those who had already un-
masked had mingled with the crowd, so
that identification was impossible.
As Blackburn was being taken from
the jail he kept exclaiming:
" Oh, Lordy!"
Put Out of Misery by Shots.
And he uttered no other word at any
time. He kept repeating the words as he
was marched down the street, and while
the rope was being adjusted, and again
as he was drawn up. He was strangling
to death slowly when he was put out of
his misery by several pistol bullets fired
from the crowd.
When first arrested Blackburn said he
only arrived from Lake Village Satur-
day night after the shooting. There was
positive evidence, however, that after
the Lindsay's were first fired on Black-
burn ran out of a negro house adjoining
and fired at John Lindsay. Also that
later delivered inflammatory speeches
to crowds he of negroes at several points.
