Deputies Sworn In.
Springfield, April 15.- State militia enforced
by 200 deputy sheriffs sworn in
of
during the day guard the streets
Springfield tonight against a possible repetition
of the work of the mob that last
night lynched three negroes in the public
There are hundreds of
square.
strangers in the city and Springfield is
still in the grip of the mob spirit. Although
no untoward move was made during
the day, many threats were heard,
and Sheriff Horner fearing a fresh outbreak
when darkness should fall, telephoned
Governor Folk early in the day
for aid. Te Governor responded promptly
, and wi in a few hours six companies
of militia were on the way here from
Aurora, Carthage, Peirce City, Butler
and Nevada and one other point. The first
of these companies arrived at 7 o'clock
this evening, and was followed during the
night at intervals by others.
In addition to sending soldiers here to
guard against a further violation of the
law, Governor Folk took quick action to
prosecute the leaders of the mob. Today
he authorized the offering of a reward
of$ 300 each for the arrest and conviction/
of members of the mob. This is the limit
allowed by law. In addition he instructed
Rush. Lake, assistant attorney general,
to proceed at once and aid the grand
jury of Green county in ferretting out
and prosecuting the prime movers in last
night's work. Mr. Lake left Jefferson
City for Springfield tonight.
Of the fourteen prisoners, whites and
negroes, who escaped from the prison last
night during the mob excitement,
were re- captured during the day. four
Thousands Swarm City.
Thousands of people today swarmed
about the jail to view the wreck caused
by the mob, and about the public square
where the three negroes were hanged and
their bodies later burned to ashes. Every
train brought hundreds of persons to
the city from surrounding towns, mostly
hoodlums, who apparently Scented
trouble, and were anxious to take a hand
in it. Many others who came from the
farming districts caught up the mob
spirit readily, and joined the general
sentiment that the negroes should be
driven from the city, and that now while
the race feeling was strong, was the
best time to do it.
Negroes who dared to appear on the
streets today, were greeted with hoots
and jeers, and on several occasions crowds
of men and boys collected to attack them.
A crowd of 200 gathered around one
negro who recently had been released
from jail and threatened him with violence
. The fact that no one would assume
the lead probably alone saved the
negro ..
Both the negroes and whites are armed
and the negroes will not likely be
driven without a struggle.
There was a steady demand today for
firearms and at many hardware stores
it was reported that they had sold nearly
the entire stock of guns of every sort.
Ropes were stretched around the jail
today, and a force of twenty- five deputies
was kept busy keeping the curiosity
seekers from forcing their way beyond
the enclosures. The damage done to the
jail cannot be repaired for some time,
and it could be entered easily by a mob
unless opposed by a sufficient number
of armed men.
Will Allen Lynched.
Will Allen, a negro charged with the
murder a man named Rourke last
January, of was taken from jail by the
mob that lynched Duncan and Cope-
land, and hanged in the public square
a short time before 3 a. m. this morning
. Allen's captors took him. to the
top of the tower, compelled him to jump
off with the rope around his neck. The
rope broke and he fell upon the charred
bodies of Duncan and Copeland. In the
second attempt he was swung off, and
as he dangled he was killed by shooting.
When Allen was first taken upon the
tower with the rope around his neck, and
protesting his innocence, the leader of
the lynchers called upon the mob to
vote whether Allen was guilty or innocent
. The mob howled" hang him."
The inside of the jail was completely
wrecked, the mob not stopping after
they had secured their men, but continuing
their work of destruction until practically
all the prison bars were down.
About$ 3000 damage was done in the
prison alone, while in the sheriff's residence
the damage is fully as much.
Mrs. Hornes, the sheriff's wife, is in
a critical condition, and is suffering with
heart trouble.
Ministers Denounce Lynchers.
Many of the leading ministers in their
Easter sermons today denounced the
lynchers in strong terms, and called upon
the proper authorities to enforce the
law or resign their positions. Prosecuting
Attorney Roscoe Patterson of Greene
county, said tonight:
" Every man implicated in this dastard-
ly outrage whose name I am able to
learn, will be punished to the full extent
of the law. The members of the mob are
not law- abiding citizens, they are outlaws
."
and
Prosecuting Attorney Patterson
Sheriff Horner are said to have secured
the names of more than 100 men who
took an active part in the lynching. The
leaders of the mob were not disguised
but worked in the full glare of the electric
lights on the square. Prosecuting
Attorney Patterson will Tuesday ask
Judge Lincoln of the criminal court to
summon a special grand jury at once,
and make a most thorough investigation
into the lynching.
A crowd of negroes assembled on the
public square early tonight and refused
to disperse, but when the first company
of militia arrived. they sullenly scattered
. It is feared that an attempt may be
made during the night to set fire to
buildings in the outskirts of the city.
and consequently the arrival of the other
companies of militia ordered here by
Governor Folk. is anxiously awaited.
Soldiers will immediatel be placed in
all parts of Springfield and extra
forts will be made to suppress any vio ef--
