Drunk Men Without Leaders- Intimations
Nelling Will Certainly Be Lynched
that at Some Future Time.
TUESDAY NIGHT'S MOB.
scenes and Incidents in the Town While the
Would- Be Lynchers Were Present,
Special to the Indianapolis Journal.
FOWLER, Ind., Oct. 17.- The howling mob
which lingered about Fowler last night,
threatening to lynch Jacob Nelling, the murderer
of Ada Atkinson, had entirely dispersed
before daylight, and when the sun
peeped over the straggling little town from
across the prairie this morning, it was as
quiet as if its serenity had not been appalled
only a few hours before by the blood- cloud
and threatening thunder of
mob violence
. The awfui cloud, however,
it is now evident, was only a vapor,
and from its constitutional elements of
weakness it was dispelled without any serious
damage to any object with which it
came in contact. The wind- mill is almost
the sole motive power by which machinery
in Benton county is operated, and the
strength of the mob which made such a boisterous
attempt last night to lynch Nelling
was constituted of the same forces. It is bad
engineering to try to run machinery and
mobs on the same principles of motive
power.
The crowd which gathered at Fowler yesterday
afternoon and last night was attracted
by a curiosity to see the lynching which had
been so loudly threatened, and, among the
600 or 700 men who had congregated in the
place, it is doubtful if there were a dozen
persons who had come to town with the determination
to join in doing violence. Each
was expecting the other to do what both were
Most of those who
wanting to witness.
were in town had come to stay all night, and
every place where lodging could be obtained
was crowded to its fullest capacity. Those
who arrived late were unable to get lodging,
and therefore had to walk the streets the
night. It was regarded as a holiday occasion,
and the saloons were freely patronized. Before
dark the crowd was boisterously drunk,
and the town was in an uproar. Threats that
the murderer would be lynched could be
heard in chorus all along the streets, but
some body of men besides those already
in town were expected to do the work. The
mob was expected to arrive from Templeton
at 9 o'clock, but it did not come. The
drunken crowd reeled up the street toward
the jail, howling fiercely, but no concerted
movement was made, and without a leader
and without organization they gathered about
the jail, expecting the prisoner to be
delivered to them upon demand. The fierce
howling which was kept up incessantly had
the effect to discomfit Nelling as much as
if it had been a determined and irresistible
mob, and made things about the jail
interesting for a few moments. very
