graph:
" Nevertheless, the motive of those who
lynch ravishers and murderers is precise-
ly that of the jurors who convict them.
To secure their punishment for what they
have done."
This may be the motive of a very few,
but it is not what actuates the mob as a
body. There are two controlling impulses in
such cases: One to wreak vengeance upon
the accused. The other to satisfy a devilish
impulse to torture and murder.
It is not right to place all the blame upon
the courts for defeat of justice. They obey
laws enacted by the people, and in this
State the jury is not only the judge of the
facts, but the law also. A single juror can
defeat a verdict. Try to change this provision
of the Constitution and see what will
be the result. Try to enact a law making
counties responsible in a good round sum
for every case of lynching, and its probable
fate will be defeat in the Lagislature. No
doubt there is a lack of promptness in
criminal trials, and that guilty ones sometimes
escape punishment through the law's
delay, but this is seldom the fault of the
courts. It is the fault of the practice prescribed
by the Legislature.
As to these crimes committed in the pretended
enforcement of lynch law, it is slander
upon that code to call them lynching.
The vigilants in the early settlement of the
territories and of California gave the accused
generally a fair trial. If he desired
he was permitted counsel and could summon
witnesses. But in the so- called lynching
nowadays the poor wretch is generally
killed- that is too weak a word- is murdered
upon an accusation without any
proof. He is dragged before the alleged
victim of his deviltry, and the frenzied accusation
of a hysterical woman is all that
is required. What is testimony under such
circumstances worth? Who knows whether
it is true or not? And what is the pretended
confession extorted under such condii-
tions worth? Who knows whether he ever
made it? Are not the leaders of the mob
capable to in a measure justify their crime?
Talk about the motive of these men as the
same as an honest juror! It is false. And
to call it lynching is a slander upon that
court. Lynchers did not torture their victims
first and then burn them at the stake.
They hung with the halter or riddled with
bullets. But these murderers imitate
the
Indians who glorified in the writhing of the
tortured and prolonged the life to see them
suffer, and preserved the relics as does the
Wilmington mob, as keepsakes. Who can
rightfully estimate the innate depravity of
such a community? No. It is not the
courts that are to blame, but the people
who enact the laws which the courts must
observe and who are now apologizing for
the acts of these mobs for luat wickedness
by accusing the courts. DELTA
Fort Wayne, Ind., July 25..
