PRAISE FOR DURBIN.
( CONCLUDED FROM FIRST PAGE.)
encouraged by every case of lynching in
which the lynchers go unpunished to himself
take the law into his own hands whenever
it suits his own convenience. In the
same way the use of torture by the mob in
certain cases is sure to spread until it is
applied more or less indiscriminately in
other cases. The spirit of lawlessness
grows with what it feeds on and when
mobs with impunity lynch criminals for
one crime, they are certain to begin to
lynch real or alleged criminals for other
causes. In the recent cases of lynching
over three- fourths were not for rape at all,
but for murder, attempted murder and
even less heinous offenses. Moreover, the
history of these recent cases shows the
awful fact that when the minds of men
are habituated to the use of torture by
lawless bodies to avenge crimes of a peculiarly
revolting description, other lawless
bodies will use torture in order to punish
crimes of an ordinary type. Surely no
patriot can fail to see the fearful brutalization
and debasement which the indulgence
of such a spirit and such practices
inevitably portend. Surely all public men,
all writers for the daily press, all clergymen
, all teachers, all who in any way have
a right to address the public, should with
every energy unite to denounce such crimes
and to support those engaged in putting
them down. As a people we claim the
right to speak with peculiar emphasis for
freedom and for fair treatment of all men
without regard to differences of race, fortune
, creed, or color. We forfeit the right
so to speak when we commit or condone
such crimes as these of which I speak.
" The Nation, like the individual, cannot
commit a crime with impunity. If we
are guilty of lawlessness and brutal violence
, whether our guilt consists in active
participation therein or in mere connivance
and encouragement, we shall assuredly suffer
later on because of what we have done.
The cornerstone of this Republic, as of all
free governments, is respect for and obedience
to the law. Where we permit the law
to be defied or evaded, whether by rich
man or poor man, by black man or white,
we are by just so much weakening the
bonds of our civilization and increasing the
chances of its overthrow, and of the substitution
therefor of a system in which
there shall violent alternations of anarchy
and tyranny be."
