MARTIAL LAW DECLARED
WHEN MOB STORMS COURT
FOR NEGRO CHILD SLAYER
Militia Foils First Attempt of Crowd With
Volley of Shot- Four Killed and Fifteen
Wounded- Federal Troops Patrol Main
Streets- Murderer Sentenced to Death
LEXINGTON, Ky., Feb. 9.- Martial law prevails tonight
. Six hundred federal and state troops are patrolling
the streets to prevent further rioting which during
the day exacted a toll of four dead and 15 wounded.
city was quiet but authorities fear a recurrence
of violence The. Five hundred additional United States
troops from Camp Taylor will arrive tomorrow morning.
Law Martial Under County Entire
Lexington and all of Fayette county
was placed under martial law by
Brigadier General F. C. Marshall upon
his arrival from Camp Taylor with 300
troops of the First division.
Rioting began this morning when a
mob, bent on lynching William Lockett,
a negro, who confessed to the murder
last week of a 10- year- old girl, Geneva
Hardman, was fired upon with rifles
and machine guns by state militiamen
as the mob was storming the Fayette
county courthouse to get the negro
during his trial.
The attempt to lynch Lockett was
made just after he had confessed to
the murder and as the jury found him
guilty of murder in the first degree.
He was sentenced to die in the electric
chair March 11.
The stooting temporarily dispersed
the mob and gave the authorities time
in which to rush Lockett to a secret
place of safety
.
Fearing an attack upon the handful
of national guardsmen on duty, the authorities
appealed to Governor Morrow
for assistance. As a result, 300 troops,
members of 26th and 28th infantry, arrived
at 3 o'clock on a special train
from Camp Taylor.
The federal troops immediately began
the work of patrolling the streets
to keep the crowds from congregating.
Lockett, arrested last Tuesday night
and held in the state penitentiary at
Frankfort for safe keeping, was indicted
late last week and was brought
here on a special train this morning
for trial. He was heavily guarded.
Hundreds of farrners from the surrounding
country arrived to attend the
trial, and sullenly watched the prisoner
as he was marched from the train to
the courthouse between lines of state
troopers. When the trial opened, the
courtroom was crowded to capacity.
Everyone was searched for firearms before
being admitted to the courthouse.
Hundreds gathered in the street in
front of the court house.
The cry" lets get him" from a
brawny farmer on the outskirts of the
crowd turned the crowd into a mob
which began surging toward the building
. Soldiers and police dropped back
into close formation and trained their
guns on the mob, which never hesitated
.
Adjutant General Dewees, in command
of the militiamen, shouted a
final warning to the crowd and then
fired a revolver into the air. It was
the signal for the troops to fire.
Soldiers and police fired point- blank
into the crowd and a near- by machine
gun rattled. From the windows of the
courtroom above another hail of bullets
spattered down on the
asphalt
street.
Four men fell at the first volley.
The mob, which had surged half way
up the steps, pressed back and broke.
Quick action on the part of the authorities
got the negro out of the
building.
Those killed in the clash were B. F.
Carrier and L. M. King, both of Lex-
ington, and John Thomas and William
Effington, both of Versailles.
Among those wounded were:
J. W. Stansell, W. J. Reese, Otis
Sharp, Emmet Dozier, Irwin Gwynn.
Emmet Danzieger, Fred Sowders, H. C.
Weathers, Mrs. E. T. Cross, James
Massevgal and J. M. Roger.
Foiled in its first attempt to get the
prisoner, the mob broke up into small
groups, which paid hurried visits to all
the pawnshops and hardware stores in
a quest for firearms. In some stores
as many as 50 or 60 revolvers and guns
were seized.
Groups of men congregated on the
streets and sought to learn the whereabouts
of Lockett. The word that regular
army troops were coming spread
rapidly and no further violence was
attempted.
Lockett's arrest, indictment, trial
and sentence sets a new record for
rapidity in Kentucky. He was arrested
last Tuesday night, indicted Friday,
and was tried, found guilty and sentenced
in a few minutes today.
Under his sentence he will die in
the electric chair March 11.
The little Hardman girl's body was
found, mutilated, in a corr field last
Tuesday morning soon after she had
left her home for school. Her head
had been crushed in with a stone and
her body partially covered up with
corn stocks.
Lockett, recently discharged from
the army, was suspected and posses
were formed immediately to look for
him. He was found at
the home of a
friend six miles from the scene of the
murder that night. Police announced
that the negro had confessed to the
muder, adding that" he didn't know
why he had killed the girl."
J. M Rogers, 61, a farmer of near
Versailles, Woodford county, shot by
the guardsmen during the fighting this
morning, died tonight from his
bringing the death list to five. injuries
