Like a span of horses, once they grip the bits between their
teeth, the American mob is running wild throughout the country.
Last week and this Negroes were taken out of the hands of the law
and the courts and lynched. In Alabama, three were taken from officers
on the highway; in Jacksonville, the mob went into the jail
and took two out and lynched them.( 1 rumor says the men were dead
before they left their cells); In Omaha, the jail was set on fire, the
sheriff beaten, the mayor strung up until unconscious, and a Negro
taken and lynched.
Like wild fire, the mob spirit is spreading over the land, devouring
and consuming the civilization. The fake cry of" Assault" only,
is necessary to defend and justify.
Governors, Senators and Congressmen make this pretext a justification
for lawlessness and lynching.
John Sharp Williams of Mississippi, cries out in the United States
Congress that," protectoin to womanhood is higher than any law,
human or divine," and further that he( in spite of his oath) would
deliver up a victim to the mob.
U. S. Senator Borah, of Idaho, replies to the champion of lawlessness
.
" If lynchings were confined, the Idaho Senator contended, to
those incidents mentioned by the Senator from Mississippi, the human
race might be disposed to pass them by on that reason.
" But the disease spreads, and men are lynched for the most
trivial causes," he added" The record shows 218 Negroes lost their
lives in the first year of the war, a time when Negro boys were giv.
ing their lives to the republic and displaying great heroism overseas.
There was intimation that they had been guilty of the particular
crime in which men seek to justify lynching.
" I want to say, considering the ultimate welfare of the human
family there can be no justification for the lynching of any persons,
and the man who preaches it is sowing the wind that reaps the whirl
wind, no matter, how black the skin of the victim may be. If the
republic does not protect the lives of its people the seeds are planted
that ultimately will lead to its disintegration.
Russia looks on with delight. Germany is chuckling
with glee. All Europe is doubtless supreme interested.
