Where that erime occurs the mob
metes out punishment. Man will care
for his women and he who abuses them
, is headed to quick immolation on the
altar of instinet. As faith rises above
mathematical demonstration, man's
pretective spirit in relation to woman
brushes restraint aside and goes
straight to the mark of natural law.
More lynchings occur in the South
simply because there are more ne
groes in the south and the crime is
oftener perpetrated here. The difference
between the north and the south
with respect to the negro is that the
south stops at the individual criminal,
while the north, once the racial feel-
ing is aroused, strikes with ungoverning
able rage at numbers.
Negroes are sometimes lynched for
other causes than attacks on women.
So have white men been lynched for
other causes, both north and south.
The west strung up cattle thieves sum
narily Lynchings for causes other
than attacks. on women in the south
( Birmingham- Age Herald- June 17)
The lynching of three negroes at Du-
luth, Minn., for assault on a white
girl is no more of a surprise than had
the lynching taken place in
, Alabama or Georgia. Mississip
have been the product of the habit of
lynching for that crime. Stop that
crime and lynchings will be few and
fa. between.
Had the Duluth crime occurred in
Georgia the actual assailant would
have been lynched. In Duluth they
went at it in wholesale style.
Not long ago in Knoxville, a southern
city, the arm of the law extended
to the protection of a negro fiend who
had ravished and murdered a number
of women, the last a white girl in her
early teens. Members of the mob were
shot down and killed. The negro was
tried, convicted and suffered the law
in the usual way.
In Duluth thirty policemen in the
jail enclosure gave way to the mob
after the sole and ridiculous effort of
dispersing it with a stream of water.
The negro would make greater progress
toward the elimination of lynch-
if less attention were paid to
lynching statistics and more to preachment
of the inevitable consequence of
this cropping out of the savage in the
race.
More progress would be made in se
euring flul justice in the courts were
stop put to the habit of harboring
a known criminals.
