A QUEER LYNCHING
There was a lynching down in Georgia
last week. In some respects it
was out of the ordinary, not because
of the way in which the accused was
killed, but because of circumstances
surrounding the alleged cause of the
killing. The mob was just as orderly
as any other mob and fired as many
bullets into the body of the prisoner as
were carried in the magazine of their
rifles. The sheriff and his posse, in
reaccordance with an ancient and honored
custom, arrived on the scene just
after the mob had dispersed and the
ears of the victim had been clipped off
as souvenirs. The same old story of a
confession is told and in every respect
the last part of the affair tallies with
similar occurrences. But it was, as has
been said, certain peculiarities of the
alleged cause leading up to the lynching
that proved the most interesting
of all the related details of the lynching.
We might forego telling them ourselves
and let them be told in this special dis-
pateh to a local newspaper edited by
John Temple Graves:
" Macon, Ga., May 16.- The recent
lynching of the Negro Wommack at
Eastman by an infuriated mob has
brought out a new development to the
crime of the Negro. It seems that he
had been accustomed to assaulting
Mrs. Pope, and had threatened to kill
her if she made any outery. The poor
woman was fearful of notifying her
neighbors or the local authorities, but
she wrote a letter to United States
Marshal George White at Macon, tell-
him how the Negro attacked her,
and asking him to send officers down
there and have the Negro taken away.
Marshal White thought the letter a
joke, but to make sure he forwarded it
Sheriff Rogers of Dodge county. The
sheriff, as soon as he saw the name
signed to the letter, recognized that
Mrs. Pope was a good white woman
and of good standing. He immediately
organized a party and started out at
night to locate the Negro. While on
the way there he heard rifle shots and,
on approaching the place from whence
they came, discovered the mob at its
work He has written a complete ac
.
count of the horrible affair to Marshal
White at Macon."
This is certainly a queer happening,
and more so because it is alleged to
occurred within a few miles of
have Eastman, one of the most progressive
towns of the state. The marvel of it
all is how Wommack could have kept
up his alleged assaults for so long a
time without detection, and why the
victim in the case, with neighbors close
around and thoroughly acquainted
with the protection the law vouchsafes
to her, could have been intimidated
and made to keep silent. The very
fact that" Marshal White thought the
letter a joke" would seem to show how
unusual a thing it must have been.
Marshal White lives many miles from
the scene. There have been crimes
and crimes and lynchings galore, but
this one at is the most mysterious
yet recorded Eastman.- New York Age.
