MOB INFURIATED AN BURNED BY
SPRINGFIELD, 0., NEGRO SECTION
Springfield, Ohio, March 9.- Intense
excitement prevails here at any early
hour this( Wednesday) morning, which
not even the presence of seven companies
of military can allay.
This excitement is shared by all the
business men and property owners of
the city, who fear that some negroes
will attempt to avenge the burning of
the levee district by firing the down-
town district.
There is little or no disorder, the
mob of 2,000 men standing quietly by
watching the spread of the flames in
the neighborhood of Spring and Galla-
gher streets, and apparently ready to
help if it should show signs of spreading
beyond the confines they originally
set for it.
When the leaders of the mob passed
down off of East High street early last
evening to begin the work of burning
the levee resorts Father John Cogan.
assistant pastor of St. Raphael's
Church, got down on his knees on the
sidewalk and implored them to desist
in their work, as they might start a fire
they would nver be able to control.
The incendiaries hesitated only a
moment, a few of them cursed him and
then went on to begin their task. So
far the fire loss does not exceed$ 30,-
000.
Throughout the day yesterday there
was vague unrest in every quarter of
the city. The body of the lynched negro
was taken from the telegraph pole
at 3 o'clock this morning and placed
in a little undertaking shop. Through
the forenoon fully 10,000 people saw
the body and stood about the city in
groups. The police and officials were
worried, but did not know what was
best to do.
Fearful of the consequences of the
mutterings about the city a conference
was held in the mayor's office to- night
by the mayor, the sheriff, two members
of the Board of Public Safety, the county
prosecutor and others.
As a result of this deliberation a telegram
was sent to Governor Herrick
asking for six companies of militia and
requesting that the local companies be
stationed in their armories.
response to this the mayor received
In a telegram to the effect that the
request would be complied with at once
and asking that the governor be kept
fully advised on the situation. The
saloons were ordered closed.
At 11:20 last night the threat of the
mob, frequently made through the day
and evening. was finally made good,
and a volume of flame was seen to
shoot up from the rear of a place occupied
by" Les" Thomas, a saloon-
keeper. Preceding the firing of the
building the mob, at a distance of 100
feet, shot at the front of the building
for half an hour, but it is not known
whether any of the occupants had remained
in the building, and if they did
whether any fatalities resulted from
the shooting. The fire spread both
ways from the Thomas place.
To the north of the levee or
Washington street, running parallel
with it, is East High street, the mort
beautiful as well as most fashionable
thoroughfare in the city. There is little
or no danger, however, of the fire
spreading to this thoroughfare.
At midnight the entire block in
Washington street from Gallagher
street west to Spring street, is on fire.
with no hope of saving any of the
buildings.
It was rumored that the negroes
would attempt to burn the city, and the
insurance men appealed to the mayor
to protect them. The police were in a
state bordering on panic after their
horrible experience in the jail the night
before. They had been without sleep.
were nervous and at high tension.
Negroes were not much in evidence
through the early part of the evening
When they appeared they were greeted
with and yells.
hoots 9.- At 2:30
