FROST LOUISE OF MURDER
JOHN PORTER CONFESSES THE
Denver, Colo., Nov. 15.- John Porter,
the sixteen- year- old colored boy held
in the city jail at Denver charged with
outraging and murdering little Louise
Frost at Limon, last night made a confession
which seems to fix his guilt
without doubt.
The confession was made in the office
of Chief of Police Farley and those
present were: Chief of Detectives Arm-
strong, Chief of Police Farley, Sheriff
Freeman of Lincoln county, Deputy
Sheriff Beistline, Sheriff A. G. Putnam
of Ell ert county and Dr. J. T. Bass.
A trunk, a washtub and a wooden
box containing the effects of the Porters
, arrived yesterday noon in Denver
from Lawrence, Kansas, which the
three men shipped there Saturday. At
police headquarters a careful search
was made of the goods and a pair of
blood- stained jean trousers was found.
The trousers, together with a blood-
soaked handkerchief, found by William
Clifford, the Lincoln county assessor,
near the bunk house which the porters
had occupied at Limon, were given to
Dr. N. A. Bolles and Dr. J. T. Bass for
examination at 1 o'clock in the afternoon
. The trousers were stained with
blood where they had been turned up
at the feet. The handkerchief was
blotched with clotted blood.
Chief Farley gives the following account
of the boy's confession.
" His story is that he lay in wait for
the girl and when she appeared he
jumped from the side of the road to the
horse's head and commanded her to get
out of the buggy. She was very much
frightened and obeyed him. He then
wound the reins around the whipstock
and threw her hat, which had fallen
off, into the buggy. The horse he started
home, as he feared suspicion might
be aroused if he were left standing
alone in the road. He then took her
to where the body was found and ray-
ished her.
" The girl was pretty badly frightened
all the time, but when she realized the
evil intent of the negro she made a
stout resistance. Then it was that Porter
used his knife with murderous effect
. He denied having stamped on her
skull, but admitted kicking her several
times in the side. After the deed was
done, he went back to the car, which
was about a mile and a half away.
" We questioned him closely about the
girl's clothing, and he answered correctly
in every detail. The pocketbook
which was missing he said she took
from under the cushion of the seat
she was getting out of the buggy. He as
took it from her and later threw it in
the lavatory of the station at Limon.
There were 53 cents in the wallet.
" I have sent Captain Armstrong
down to Limon to investigate the ne-
gro's story and particularly to try to
find the pocket book. I am satisfied
now, though, that Porter is, as he says,
the guilty man.
Dispatches have been received stating
that Sheriff Freeman, Chief of Detectives
Armstrong of Denver, and
their party, arrived in Limon at midnight
. They went at once to the closet
where Porter said he had thrown
Louise Frost's pocket book, and, after
a short search, found it.
Porter, is an ignorant, sullen boy,
awkward and slovenly. He has a bullet
- shaped head, flat forehead and very
thick lips. But for his youth, he would
look the criminal he is. He was
weighed yesterday afternoon and his
weight was found to be 105 pounds,
about the same as that of the girl he
killed. According to his confession,
Louise Frost fought him, but, although
the girl was as heavy as he his
,
strength overcame her. She must have
been badly frightened, too, for Porter
says she got out of the buggy, crying,
when he ordered her to do so.
The murderer has a bad record and,
despite his age, has been in prison in
Kansas for attempting to assault a girl.
He might have committed murder then,
had he not been frightened from his
prey.
Sheriff Freeman of Lincoln county
says he does not believe that the people
of Limon will attempt to lynch Porter.
A different opinion prevails at police
headquarters in this city. As soon as
the citizens of the little town learn that
Porter has admitted his guilt, the feeling
that has been aroused by the crime
will be directed against him. Unless
the time of the taking of the prisoner
from Denver to Hugo is kept secret.
there will surely be a crowd at Limon
to see the negro on the train. And
there seems little doubt if a crowd of
Limon citizens catch sight of Louise
Frost's murderer, he will be lynched.
The story of the murderer's confession
spread like wildfire throughout
Denver last night. Many persons went
to the city jail in the hope of seeing
the prisoner and the rumor that he had
been taken to the county jail caused a
crowd to gather there. The negro will
be kept in the city jail until it is determined
when he shall be taken
Lincoln county. to
