Lynching Is Denounced
by Southern Governors
Harris and Slaton of Georgia and Others Deplore
Mob's Defiance of Law and Predict
Punishment of the Guilty. Speedy
The sentiment of the South in regard to the lynching of Leo M. Frank
is reflected in opinions expressed last night by Governors of Southern States
These opinions were as follows:.
FITZGERALD, Ga., Aug. 17.-
Gov. Harris of Georgia.
anta to- night, said:
" I am greatly shocked and aggrieved and I do not believe the people
of Georgia will at all approve of this action. I am sure that it will hurt
Georgia greatly everywhere and I am extremely sorry that it occurred.
" It can be taken for granted that I will use my every power to see
to it that the members of this mob receive fitting punishment for their
. I will see to it that the authorities of the county in which this
crime crime occurred are given every help at the disposal of the State."
Ex- Gov. Slaton of Georgia.
muted Leo M. Frank's sentence life to imprisonment
SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 17.- Ex- Governor Slaton
ing in these words:
" I would rather be lynched by a mob than be lynched by the judiciary.
One is an attack upon the soul and the other only reaches the body.
" The act was a consummate outrage, and every man engaged in the
lynching should be hanged, for he is an assassin. Such an act is contrary
to the civilization of Georgia, and one which every good citizen will condemn
. The English language is not strong enough nor broad enough to
designate this in appropriate manner. The men who would do this sort
of thing are of the same sort that kill women and children and men from
behind a fence. No language is too condemnatory to express any sentiment
in this case for which I will not stand responsible, and the words that I
peak here I will repeat when I get home.
" I repeat that every good man and good woman in Georgia will resent
this outrage, and will demand the speedy punishment of those who have
perpetrated."
Gov. Hall it of Louisiana.
NEW ORLEANS, Aug. 17.- Gov. Hall
The lynching of Frank was the
It is" severely condemned. I am sure, by
Gov. Goldsborough of Maryland.
" When a State becomes the theatre of mob rule, every agency at the
command of its Governor should be fully and fearlessly used to apprehend
and punish its members, not men, but outlaws, who would uproot
government and destroy the fundamental rights of civilization. This, and
nothing less, I feel convinced, the Governor of Georgia will do."
Gov. Stuart of Virginia.
BOSTON, Aug. 17.- Gov. Henry C. Stuart of Virginia, who is here to attend
the conference of Governors' Week, spoke vigorously on the lynching
of Frank, saying:
" I deplore with all my soul all performances like this high handed
violation of the law in the case of Frank.
" I cannot condemn such outbreaks with sufficient force to express my
Intense feeling against such a procedure.
" I do not, however, think this new turn of affairs had anything to do
with race prejudices against the Jews in the South. No person any longer
regards nations in the South. Not once in the trial of Frank do I believe
race prejudices entered. Judge and jury acted without regard to the nationality
of the man on trial for his life.
" The better element throughout the entire South has the highest respect
for law and order and would not under any circumstances indorse the
lynching which has taken place. In my own State of Virginia no lynching
has occurred for more than fifteen years. Lynching in the whole South has
undergone rapid diminution in the last few years.
" This trial of Frank, with the subsequent outrages, springs from the
feeling of resentment among all Southern people against attacks on young
womanhood.
" With the increase of education among the Southern people I believe
such outrages will pass, as they are in fact already frowned upon by the
better educated classes everywhere. No one in the South will for a moment
countenance this morning's crime against the State of Georgia, and perpetrators
if caught should be summarily punished." the
