MOB MURDERS IN KENTUCKY.
A brief account of the tragedy at Hawesville,
Ky., in which Thomas S. Lowe lost his life at the
hands of a mob, has been published. The Louis-
ville Courier publishes a history of the affair,
which is as terrible as any in the bloody record of
Kentucky. Cicero Maxwell, the Prosecuting Attorney
, had refused a challenge from Lowe, and
had also refused to name the arms and place for a
street fight. The Courier says:
In a short time, Lowe, with 3 pistols under his
left arm and one in his right hand, approached the
crowd, which was near the court house, and in a
loud voice said:" If Cicero Maxwell is in the
crowd, or in the sound of my voice, let him come
forth. He has stated that I am a political juggler.
In return, I pronounce him a liar, calumniator,
and a son of a w- This he repeated
"
coward,
several times. The denunciation was conveyed to
Maxwell, or heard by him, and in a few minutes
he made his appearance in the street with a double
barrel shot gun, and accompanied by a Mr Harris
and Morton, of Hartford, Judge Mayhall, and Thos
Withrow, of Hawesville, and others. When within
about 30 yards of Lowe, who faced his foe, Maxwell
discharged one barrel of his gun, which was
loaded with buck- shot, the contents striking the
left breast of Lowe; who staggered, but instantly
recovered his position,( a coat of mail saving him.
as alleged). He returned the fire, but missed, and
seeing the mob present arms, took refuge in the
crowd, and eluding pursuit for the time, got into
the house of a widow lady.
Maxwell and his friends, discovering where he
was, surrounded the house and threatened to tear
it down if Lowe was not given up. The lady implored
them to desist, and said it was true Lowe
was there, but she had no power to bring him out.
A parley took place, and three friends of Maxwell
entered the building. Lowe asked that his life
might be spared. They assured him he should not
be molested provided he would disarm himself, and
accompanied by them he re- appeared on the street.
The sight of him only added fuel to the flame, and
he was again fired upon. Mr Harris, one of the
gentlemen who gave assurance of protection, said,
" Mr Lowe, I cannot risk my life longer to save
you," and Mr Lowe broke and run, followed by
the mob. Mr Aldridge, the only friend Lowe
seems to have had, fired at the mob, and as he
turned to fly was killed by a ball from a rifle. A
great number of shots were fired at Lowe in his
flight. He was wounded in several places, and
clothes riddled with balls. as
his He ran far as
the bank of the river, his foes still firing at him
in his flight, and there fell apparantly exhausted.
One Thos. Withrow also cut at him with his bowie
kuife while he was running, but the coat of mail
which it is said he wore prevented his being hurt.
Mr Harris went to him where he lay, and one
of the mob run up and swore he would kill him
anyhow, and put a pistol to Lowe's head. Harris
knocked the weapon up, and it was discharged
without injuring any one. The crowd then gathered
around Lowe, and Maxwell asked him if he
would make a retraction. Lowe replied that he
retracted everything he had said, that he was a
coward, and had disgraced himself. Maxwell, it is
said, begged his friends not to hurt his fallen foe,
as he had done all he required. Lowe was then
taken back to the court house and delivered to
Judge Stuart. Some of the mob manifested a
wish to lynch Lowe, Judge Stuart rose and said
he was in the hands of the law, which should be
honored, and Lowe should not be injured until the
mob passed over his dead body. His speech prolonged
Lowe's term of life at least for a few hours,
and after his wounds were dressed in the court
house, accompanied by Judge Stuart, he was taken
to jail. The Judge remained with him until a
late hour in the night, when it was thought the
excitement was at an end, and the prisoner safe
from the fury of those who had sought his life.
On Wednesday morning Lowe sent for Harris,
and thanked him for saving his life on the previous
day, but expressed fears the mob would hang
him, and solicited his visitor to intercede for his
life in behalf of his wife and children. Harris
left, and about that time a report was started that
Lowe told Harris that he only asked protection
then for revenge that would follow, and when he
was released from jail he would kill the last one of
them. This again aroused his vindictive enemies,
but no violence was done openly. In a very short
time, however, two men, Dr Davidson and John
Withrow, went to Oldham, the jailor, and demanded
the keys of the prison. The presentation of
pistols at the head of the officer was potent, and
the two men thus reached the room where the unfortunate
Lowe was confined. He was lying on a
bed, prostrate from his wounds, and excitement
and suspense. As soon as he saw them, divining
their purpose, he asked them to spare his life, but
the cruel and relentless men were there to slay,
not to spare.
Withrow first fired, then Davidson, both balls
entering Lowe's breast, and killing him instantly.
The assassins then went out of the cell, but fear-
ful the bloody deed was not yet done, returned and
fired four more balls into the lifeless corpse. Five
of the balls entered his breast, the sixth entering
the head above the eyes. The murder having
been executed to their satisfaction, they then retired
It was afterwards ascertained
that Lowe
.
had on a complete cost- of- mail.
The Grand Jury of Hawesville has refused to
find any bill against the participants in the
der. mur-
