SHOT TO DEATH BY A
In a Southern Jail.
A Boy Riddled With Bullets
SHOT IN HIS CELL.
Fiendish Work of a South Carolina
Mob- Five Hundred Shots Fired at a
Prisoner- Terrible Struggle of the
Victim.
COLUMBIA, S. C. May 5.- Willie Leaphart,
the colored boy under, sentence of death, was
. Lexington jail last night in shot and killed
shooting not have particulars the of The
yet reached here.
lynchers indicate the accounts that Later
succeeded in entering the cell, shooting Leap-
hart once and then were almost compelled to
continue the shooting on account of his desperate
resistance. Sheriff G. S. Drafts of
Lexington telegraphed Governor Richardson
as follows:
Last night about 2 o'clock a posse of men
broke down the door to my sleeping apartments
with a large hammer, took the keys
from me by force, opened the jail door and
shot Leaphart a number of times. I think
several of the posse can be identified. The
ceroner has empanelled a jury to view the
body and has telegraphed the solicitor to be
here to- morrow at 9 a m., to which time the
jury has adjourned..
A witness of the occurrence says: The men
went directly to the jail, after securing the
keys, unlocked the main door and entered
door after door until Leaphart's was
reached. This they could not open with cell the
real- mob and watched the Leaphart keys.
long killed seized a would be izing that he
rod and awaited the attack
iron.
As
the lynshing party shot through the grating
of his cell he fought like a maniac, wounding
one of the party. Some hundred
shots were poured into the cell five and the man
was literally riddled with bullets which
were picked up afterwards in the, room by
handfulls.
Pasted on a tree in front of the jail was
the following:" Governor Richardson
Judge Wallace are responsible for lynoh law
in Lexington county. Our wives and daugh-
ters must and shall be protected at any and
every hazard."
In the cell with another
Leaphart was
prisoner named Forster, a bogus detective,
who got the first wound in the fray, being
shot through the arm. Forster shouted out:
" Gentlemen, if do not want to kill us
both, for God's you sake let me out."
