CAPITAL PUNISHMENT MAY AGAIN
BE LEGALIZED IN COLORADO
A RESULT OF PORTER'S CRIME AS
ENVER, Nov. 17.- Colorado
D
is
shuddering with horror over the
burning of" John" Porter near
Lake station yesterday- that is,
all of Colorado except Lincoln
County. In Denver and Colorado Springs
meetings of ministers and business men
have been called to condemn the brutality
of the mob which burned Porter.
Lincoln County, however, has no regrets
. R. W. Frost is actually pleased
with his revenge. He set the match to
the pyre in which was consumed the negro
murderer of his little daughter at almost
the precise spot where the murder was
committed.
" I have done nothing that I would not
do again," he said.
His neighbors went to- day to the
of the burning and built a fresh fire scene over
the little heap of blue bones that lay in
the ashes beside the steel stake to which
Porter was chained. When the bones were
wholly consumed the ashes were scattered
to the winds, away from the weeds dyed
with the blood of Louise Frost. Her
father did not want the negro's dust to
defile the spot where his child had
found dying. been
The Coroner's jury visited the spot soon
afterward, and in ten minutes reached a
verdict that Porter" came to his death at
the hands of persons unknown to the
jury."
Porter was one of the many low negroes
brought in work on section
to gangs.
Warning was sent out by the lynchers to
all these negroes to get out of the State,
and to- day there is not a black working
on the Union Pacific sections west of the
Kansas line. A few of the sightseers from
Denver and other Colorado and Kansas
towns have come home from the burning
with bits of bones picked from the fire,
but relic hunting was sternly discouraged
by the farmers, who executed Porter as a
matter of duty. The Bible which Porter
carried in his walk to his death was displayed
in Denver to- day.
A meeting will be held in the First Baptist
Church here to- morrow afternoon to
pass resolutions condemning the lynching.
The leading pastors of the city will speak
and many sermons will be preached on the
subject to- morrow. The Governor has
promised to make a speech, and business
men and lawyers, many of whom would
have heard without a qualm that the negro
had been hanged, will denounce
burning. his
One probable effect of the lynching will
be the repeal of the law forbidding capital
punishment in Colorado. Many who condemn
the lynching say it would not have
occurred if the people could have been
sure that the negro would be hanged. The
free exercise of the pardoning power by
Colorado's Governor, particularly in the
cases of murderers, has aroused a strong
sentiment in favor of the return to the
old law. A strong lobby for the repeal bill
was at work long before the Porter lynching
, and it now has an argument which
will appeal to everybody in the State, for
even District Attorney Malone, who condemned
the lynching, when pressed
questions said: with
" If I had been Frost and my little girl
had been murdered I should have
that scoundrel full of holes." shot
Therein he expressed the sentiment of a
good many who denounce Frost's
ance. venge-
PRESTON( JOHN) PORTER JR., THE MURDERER OF LOUISE FROST, WHO WAS BURNED AT THE STAKE BY
A MOB OF COLORADO CITIZENS AFTER HE HAD CONFESSED. REPRODUCED FROM A LIFE
MADE BY A DENVER TIMES ARTIST. STUDY
Meeting of Business Men and Clergy to Be Held
at Denver and Colorado Springs to
Against the Burning of the Negro Criminal Protest.
