It is reported that public opinion in Modoc condemns
the outrage, that good citizens are shocked,
that the event is greatly deplored and that the lynchers
are being everywhere denounced. All of that is
excellent in its way, but it is not enough. California
has a right to expect the law abiding citizens of
Modoc to cordially co- operate with the officers of the
law in bringing the offenders to justice. Where so
many persons are engaged in a crime it is not impossible
to identify and convict at least some of them.
There is no reason, therefore, why this outrage should
be permitted to pass as a" mysterious crime" committed
by" persons unknown." It is in the power of
the people of Modoc to vindicate the law and the good
name California, and it is to be hoped they will
promptly of do so.
So far as the facts have been made known not the
slightest excuse can be given for the Modoc lynching.
The accused men were in the bands of the authorities;
they were to have been tried in the county where their
offenses are alleged to have been committed, and the
law provides ample punishment for any crime of which
they might have been convicted. Under such circumstances
the action of the lynchers was a far worse
offense than anything which the victims were
accused or suspected. of
The most portentous fact. about the evil is the frequency
with which it is being resorted to. It is no
longer confined to any particular section of the country
, or for the punishment of any especially abominable
crime. It has occurred not only in sparsely settled
and backward localities, but in some of the most populous
and advanced States in the Union. It has been
committed for nearly all kinds of suspected offenses,
and in the Modoc case it appears the victims of the
mob were accused of nothing worse than petty theft.
This tendency of mobs to violate the law, ignore justice
, trample upon every dictate of right and reason,
and inflict death and not infrequently torture upon
persons who are merely suspected of crime, is an
actual menace to society. It calls for the most earnest
and vigorous efforts on the part of the authorities to
stop it by measures before it becomes even
more appalling drastic and more menacing than at present.
MODOC LYNCHING THE.
OR the welfare of California as well as for the
F maintenance of our laws, the perpetrators of the
lynching outrage in Modoc County should be
brought to the bar of justice to answer for the crime.
Murder committed under the name of lynch law has
now become so frequent in the United States that it
can be no longer palliated or excused. In the old days,
when there were vast border districts where governments
had not been organized, and when lynch law
.
was carried out with something of rude justice, it was
tolerated as a sort of necessary evil; but those times
have long passed away and their conditions have
with them At the
passed time there is
. present no
justification whatever for such offenses, and they have
now become nothing nor less than crimes which
should be punished by more the severest penalties,
