would, be the most impressive the world has seen.
If the acts of one day could be presented as a moving
picture it would hold the attention of the world
against all other human interest. In one day of the
last fortnight, the scene would'show a black wretch
blazing in the fire in Maryland, two hanging to trees
in Tennessee ,. while a mob riddled their bodies with
billets. In Texas bloodhounds bay on the tracks
" of a negro; two brothers, the sons of a prominent
..white man and a black mother are dangling from
, a
bridge in South Carolina; one is being shot and
dragged to death in Illinois, and another in the same
State is in the custody of officers who are besieged
,
by a mob that has stake and fire ready to lynch him.
In Arkansas two have confessed crime and are saying
their last prayers while the mob stirs impatiently.
At Yale University two black men stand in the
blaze of the light of the two hundred and sixty-
seventh commencement of that old college. They
were both born in the one- roomed log houses and
reared in the squalor of the poorest Southern ne-
groes. They have worked their way through college
. by waiting on the table in eating- houses in
New Haven. Each graduates at the head of his
class, laureled with all the highest honors of the
university. One is on the platform speaking. College
presidents, scholars. Senators, Governors and
great preachers are in his audience. Above him
flutters the flag that has for his
race no of
memory
& glorious past, no promise of a glorious future;
but the head that is arched under his black wool
is stored with the wisdom of all men who have been
wise since Enos was born and men began calling on
the name of the Lord. His tropical imagination,
Curbed by scholarship, is weaving into oratory his
theme. The scholars and gentlemen, the fair ladies
and reverend men before him forget his black skin.
In English that Addison would find flawless, with
logic- that the professors approve, and in phrases and
figures. that play like summer lightning first on the
head and then on the heart, he goes forward with his
bration, while the great company is thrilled as no
⚫other liad stirred it. Then his fellow negro is introduced
and, taking a scientific subject as his theme,
treats it so that people ask," Is the spirit of
Priestley or Proctor or Lavoisier returned in a
black body?" Then follows the grave report of the
faculty; and these two negroes have taken the first
honors and the first prizes of the university! Their
white classmates are the most earnest in applause.
The negro waiters, the hirelings of a public
eating- nouse, have earned little and spent less. They
had no help- no free scholarship- and while they
stood victors before that great audience neither had
five dollars in the world; but they took first honors.,
It seems a far cry, from that scene to where the poor
devil was breathing the blaze to end his grilling,
and to the other tragedies where negroes were being
hanged and shot. But they were all of the same
race, and as it happened the two victors of Yale
and the several victims of the mobs started on the
same level, the same dreary level -- one- roomed huts,
no early training, no high ideals, no fairy vista.
Then what was it set the faces of these to the light
and of those to the dark?
The picture is a tragedy and a resurrection. What
shall we do with these blacks? In our economy is
there no room to let them be men? These two
men of Yale will not incur penalties, either of the
mob or of the law. How shall the millions of the
race be made to look upon their example and call
good and worthy to be followed? it
HAT shall we do with the negro? What
W shall we do with a race which produced
Booker Washington and the last friendless
black wretch that writhed in the fire to the howling
of a mob? While we talk about it, and argue, the
tragedy goes on. While the South says to the North,
Mind your own business," and the North replies,
" This is our own business," and the time lost in recrimination
might be better invested in finding a way
out, the drámia proceeds
If the whole scene were. put before the vision it
WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH HIM?
